<ID>20091013-220
<DATE>20091013<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/china-and-russia-cement-economic-and-diplomatic-ties/a-4783321
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China and Russia cement economic and diplomatic ties
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Russia and China have realigned their trade and diplomatic ties, and Vladimir Putin's visit to Beijing shows that, despite lingering doubts and distrust, the two sides have more to gain than lose from mutual cooperation.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

Trade, energy and security deals worth an estimated 3.5 billion euros ($5.5 
billion) have been signed during Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's 
three-day visit to China.

More than 20 agreements have been negotiated, including one committing both 
countries to notify the other when ballistic missiles are launched from their 
territories. The Russian RIA Novosti news agency reported that the two sides 
had also signed an agreement to set up a presidential hotline between Moscow 
and Beijing.

The Agricultural Bank of China has also agreed to lend $500 million to 
Russia's VTB bank. A memorandum of understanding has also been signed on 
developing a high-speed rail link on Russian territory.

Progress was also announced on a natural gas pipeline project as well as 
nuclear energy, said Shi Yajun, an expert on Sino-Russian relations at East 
China Normal University.

Putin's visit coincides with the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations 
between China and Russia.

The expediency of closer ties

But, despite signs that bilateral ties are running smoothly, some experts 
believe the two nations are banding together out of a common distrust of other 
powers, rather than a real desire to become closer allies.

Russia and China have a history of rivalry and distrust stemming from disputes 
in the 1960s over differences in communist doctrine and skirmishes along their 
shared 4,300-kilometer (2,672-mile) border. While most of the border issues 
have been resolved, Moscow is still wary of Beijing's growing economic and 
security influence on its eastern flank.

"Moscow's main frustration is that China is starting to overshadow Russia as a 
great power," Jonathan Holslag, head of research at the Brussels Institute of 
Contemporary China Studies, told Deutsche Welle. "Both players yearn for 
international esteem and status, but China is way ahead. This has led to 
growing distrust in Central Asia, where China has gained influence at Russia’s 
expense. Also in Northeast Asia, Russia’s influence is really squeezed under 
China's demographic and commercial weight."

Russia, China still in line on Iran despite recent shifts

Russia has opposed sanctions on Iran until recently

However, China and Russia have both seen the advantages of stronger ties, even 
if issues such as China's expanding influence remain thorns in their relations. 
With international pressure continuing to grow over Iran's nuclear ambitions 
and the behavior of the regime in North Korea, Moscow and Beijing have often 
joined forces to deflect attempts at tougher action from the United States and 
the UN Security Council.

"When it comes to Iran and North Korea, Moscow and Beijing both agree that 
those countries should not develop nuclear arms, but that it is not worth 
putting regional stability and economic interests at risk," said Holslag.

Despite Russia's apparent U-turn in favor of sanctions against Iran, the two 
nations are expected to use Putin's visit to coordinate their international 
diplomacy on the nuclear issues involving Iran and North Korea, suggesting that 
Moscow and Beijing are not getting out of step on the issues in which they have 
stood side-by-side in the face of Western pressure.

Support over restive regions wavers

Mutual distrust still exists but is put aside for mutual gain

China and Russia have also lent support directly to each other on issues that 
have riled the West, such as Beijing's tough position on Tibet and its restive 
Xinjiang region and Moscow's involvement in its proxy states in the Caucasus. 
But even in these areas, the sands have shifted.

"Traditionally both countries emphasised sovereignty in their joint combat 
against religious extremism, secessionism and American unilateralism," said 
Holslag. "But since Russia’s unilateral intervention in Georgia, this normative 
common ground has faded. China for example refuses to recognize the 
independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia as Russia would like. Behind closed 
doors the Chinese also criticize Russian plans to build new military bases in 
Central Asia."

Trade keeping potentially frosty relations warm

The two nations are building the strongest ties in the areas of trade and 
energy. China is Russia's second largest trade partner after the European 
Union, and despite bilateral trade shrinking by just over 36 percent to $24 
billion in the first eight months of this year as a consequence of the global 
financial crisis, the two countries expect bilateral trade to increase to 
$60-80 billion by 2010.

Trade agreements are high on Putin and Hu Jintao's agenda

The driving force in these trade relations, however, is China. The Chinese 
economy has left its Russian equivalent standing in recent years, with China 
gross domestic product growing in contrast to Russia’s shrinkage during the 
economic crisis.

"China represents less than 10 percent of Russia’s trade, and the Russian 
trade deficit is growing," said Holslag. "Yet, it is clear that for the long 
turn, Russia aims at developing stronger economic cooperation with the Chinese 
to reduce its reliance on the European consumer market. It has approved major 
new pipeline projects to China and is seeking to turn its vast territory in a 
land bridge between the East and the West. The Arctic Ocean will be another 
trump with which Moscow will seek to step up its economic leverage."

Both sides looking to expand energy cooperation 

Putin would like to oversee oil and gas deals with China

China is also looking to benefit from Russia's dissatisfaction with Europe as 
an energy consumer and partner. While still focused on the West, Moscow is keen 
to find alternative customers for its oil and gas and China has made it clear 
that it is ready to strike deals over Russia’s huge mineral resources.

"As opposed to Europe, Russia is highly interested in 'security of demand' - 
especially in view of tightening climate change policies," Arno Behrens, head 
of energy research at the Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels, told 
Deutsche Welle. "Russia is thus very keen to diversify its demand structure and 
China would be an ideal partner to do so - guaranteeing a high level of demand 
in the long-run. Similarly, a better cooperation with Russia as a substitution 
for increasing trade relationships with rogue states may benefit China’s 
political image in the West."

One deal which could further Russian-Chinese energy cooperation was struck in 
April when, in return for 300 million tons of Russian oil over 20 years, China 
agreed to lend Russian oil pipeline monopoly Transneft $10 billion and 
state-run oil company Rosneft $15 billion.

China's investment in Transneft's East Siberia-Pacific Ocean pipeline will 
help to aid its slated 2010 completion and could lead to 15 million tons of 
crude oil being pumped into the insatiable Chinese industry sector.

Gas deals could capitalize on China's growing status

China could also become a major consumer of Russian gas if export monopoly 
Gazprom can overcome its pricing disagreements with the Chinese and make good 
on a 2006 agreement to build two major pipelines into China.

"According to the International Energy Agency, China is the world’s second 
largest and fastest growing energy consumer, and will be the world’s largest 
energy consumer as of 2010," Behrens said. "Total primary energy demand has 
almost tripled between 1980 and 2005 and is expected to more than double again 
between 2005 and 2030. But despite this huge potential, energy relations with 
Russia remain underdeveloped."

Author: Nick Amies (gb)

Editor: Rob Mudge

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>