<ID>20150511-165
<DATE>20150511<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/indias-modi-in-china-to-push-for-closer-ties/a-18444171
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
India's Modi in China to push for closer ties
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has arrived in China for a three-day-visit in a bid to strengthen an economic and political bilateral relationship afflicted by an underlying climate of mistrust. DW examines.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Modi's first visit to China as prime minister - from May 14-16 - will provide 
an opportunity to address the issues confronting the two nations and solidify 
the bilateral relationship. Just like Chinese President Xi Jinping, who started 
his India tour last September in Modi's home state of Gujarat, Modi first 
landed in Xi's home province of Shaanxi before heading to Beijing and Shanghai.

 During the trip, the Indian leader will meet not only President Xi, but also 
Prime Minister Li Keqiang and a host of other Chinese leaders, and hold talks 
over a range of bilateral and global issues. Modi - who recently joined the 
Chinese social networking site Weibo - wrote that he hoped his China visit 
would "strengthen stability, progress and prosperity in Asia."

 "Modi is the most pro-China Indian PM in a long time, and he is eager to reset
 Indo-China ties," said Gauri Khandekar, head of the Asia Program at the 
European think tank FRIDE. The visit will largely focus on economic issues, 
including India's huge trade deficit with China, the analyst told DW, adding 
that both sides are likely to discuss existing cooperation in high-speed 
railway, nuclear power and electricity facilities.

Competing giants 

 China and India are home to a third of humanity. Hence, the relationship of 
these two emerging powers with other nations as well as with each other is 
likely to play a decisive role in tackling 21st century global challenges such 
as combating climate change, ensuring sustainable economic development, 
guaranteeing free trade, and maintaining stability.

DW recommends

Xi visit takes Sino-Pakistani ties to new level

As China's President Xi Jinping wraps up a historic two-day visit to Pakistan 
that saw the signing of deals worth $46 billion, DW talks to expert Andrew 
Small about what the trip means for bilateral ties and the region. (21.04.2015)
 

Modi seeking to counter China's clout in Indian Ocean

Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting three Indian Ocean countries in a bid 
to bolster India's economic and security ties in a region where Beijing has 
been making inroads in recent years. (11.03.2015)
 

Naval buildup reflects India's 'ambition to project power'

The rise of India as a major trading and resource-consuming power has prompted 
the South Asian nation to expand its maritime interests beyond its littoral 
region, says defense analyst Chietigj Bajpaee in a DW interview. (23.02.2015)
 

The Sino-Pakistani axis: Asia's 'little understood' relationship

China and Pakistan have been described as "all weather friends," but the 
nature of their ties remains secretive. DW talks to analyst Andrew Small, about 
some of the most sensitive aspects of this strategic relationship. (15.01.2015)
 

 Although China is far ahead of India in terms of its economic size and 
military capabilities, both nations still face similar and vexing problems: 
endemic corruption, air and water pollution, rapid urbanization and migrant 
workers, among other issues.

 However, when it comes to relations between the two Asian giants, there are 
"areas of shared interests, and areas of significant divergence," as Gareth 
Price, senior analyst at the Asia Program at Chatham House, told DW.

 Over the years, economic engagement between the two countries has been on the 
rise, with bilateral commerce worth around $70 billion in 2014. There are 
concerns on the Indian side about the massive trade deficit of over $37 billion 
the country has with its northern neighbor. Nevertheless, India and China have 
fixed a trade target of $100 billion for 2015.

Mistrust

 But despite the common challenges and growing economic interdependence, an 
underlying climate of mistrust continues to permeate the bilateral 
relationship. A key source of apprehension is rooted in their unresolved border 
dispute. The two countries have conflicting territorial claims along their 
2,500-mile-long ill-defined border, and they fought a brief but bloody war in 
1962.

 While China claims the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh, calling it as South 
Tibet, India claims the Aksai Chin region - a virtually uninhabited area 
between China's Xinjiang province and Indian-administered Kashmir.

 However, the two countries have managed to maintain peace and tranquility 
along the border for over a quarter of a century now, despite some occasional 
low-level incidents involving territorial incursions.
 
 
While China claims the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh, India Claims the 
Aksai Chin region

 "The propensity for misunderstanding is also fuelled by limited 
people-to-people contacts, cultural barriers and rising levels of nationalism 
that accompany the growing international clout of both countries," Chietigj 
Bajpaee, an India expert at King's College in London, told DW.

Pushing economic ties

 Prime Minister Modi, whose core electoral promise was to foster economic 
development, has spoken of emulating the Chinese development model while 
attracting investment to upgrade India's infrastructure and manufacturing 
capacity. But Chinese investment in India amounted to a mere $400 million 
between 2000 and 2014, a figure which the prime minister hopes will increase in 
the future. When Xi visited India last year, he pledged some $20 billion in 
investments as part of a five-year economic and trade development plan.

 Modi will also be seeking to correct the underlying disparity in the economic 
relationship by pushing for greater market access for Indian exports to China, 
said Bajpaee. India's exports to China are primarily natural resources whereas 
China's exports to India are largely manufactured and value-added products.

 "Correcting this imbalance will entail granting Indian companies, 
particularly those in the pharmaceutical, agricultural and IT sectors – where 
India maintains a comparative advantage – greater access to Chinese markets," 
argued Bajpaee.

 China, on the other hand, will be seeking better access to the Indian market 
for Chinese companies, Liu Zongyi, an expert on Indo-Chinese ties at the 
Shanghai Institutes for International Studies (SIIS), told DW. Beijing would 
also like to cooperate with New Delhi on regional and global economic issues, 
including reforming the international financial system, Liu underlined.

Disagreements

 Beyond economics, both Xi and Modi will also hold discussions on prickly 
geopolitical issues. A cause of mutual distrust lies in the growing 
geopolitical competition between the two powers, which have strategic 
engagements with each others' adversaries. While New Delhi is deeply suspicious 
of China's increasingly closer ties with India's arch-rival Pakistan, Beijing 
looks warily at the South Asian nation's broadening partnership with countries 
such as US, Japan and Vietnam.

 "China doesn't want to see India's interference in South China Sea and East 
China Sea disputes," stressed analyst Liu.
 
 
Both China and India are rapidly modernizing their militaries

 This view is shared by Bajpaee. "India has increasingly injected itself into 
the disputes through its pursuit of deepening relations with several claimant 
states, including Vietnam and Japan," he pointed out. Moreover, New Delhi has 
echoed Washington's position by issuing a joint statement in January and 
calling for these disputes to be settled peacefully while safeguarding maritime 
security and maintaining the freedom of navigation.

 In this context, Beijing will seek reassurances from New Delhi that "it will 
not be adding fuel to the fire of China's maritime disputes where Beijing 
maintains a preference for a bilateral, non-internationalized approach," 
Bajpaee said.

 At the same time, India is likely to ask China "to abandon cooperation with 
Pakistan, or persuade Islamabad to eliminate terrorism in Kashmir," underlined 
China expert Liu.

 Despite the multiple disagreements, analysts say both countries will likely 
discuss developments in regions such as the Middle East that now accounts for 
half of China's oil and 70 percent of India's energy imports. With Modi's 
visit, says analyst Khandekar, China will hope not only to build better ties 
with India but also enlist New Delhi's support for shared multilateral 
ambitions and mutual interests.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>