<ID>20161209-87
<DATE>20161209<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/the-hui-chinas-preferred-muslims/a-36699666
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
The Hui - China's preferred Muslims?
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
While the Muslim Uighurs are increasingly being persecuted, the largest Chinese-Muslim minority, the Hui, are under less scrutiny and thriving as a religious community. DW examines the reasons behind this phenomenon.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

Walking through the Muslim quarter of Xi'an is a fascinating venture into a 
hodge-podge of cultures. The smell of lamb skewers and hot spices wafts through 
the crowded streets. Chinese-looking women in headscarfs stretch noodles, 
while an old man with a white prayer hat stands in front of a mosque with a 
distinctly Chinese arched roof.  

This is the home of the Xi'an Hui Muslim people, where Islam was introduced to 
China for the first time in the 7th century. China's Muslim population now 
numbers 23 million, of which over 10 million are estimated to be Hui, and a 
little under 10 million Uighur.  

While their fellow Muslim Uighurs in the Xingjiang Uighur Autonomous Region 
are experiencing severe restrictions on their religious freedoms, the Hui 
mostly practice their faith openly, and in certain areas are enjoying a 
resurgence in their religious participation. The reason for their success has 
to do with centuries of remarkable assimilation, while also maintaining their 
identity. 

A history of assimilation

Historically, the Hui people are descendants of Persian, Arab and Mongol 
merchants on the Silk Road, who came to China over 1,200 years ago. Since then, 
intermarriages with the Han Chinese have meant that the Hui became ethnically 
mixed and spread across the country.

Hui Muslims were allowed to practice Ramadan, while Uighurs were not

Over the centuries, the Han and Hui have lived relatively peacefully next to 
and with each other. The Hui took the path of assimilation, speak Mandarin and 
adapted their religious traditions to the local customs.

One of the most visual examples of this is the great mosque of Xi'an, said to 
be one of the largest and oldest in China. The place of worship is built up of 
multiple courtyards and sports arches and tiled roofs that clearly show 
influences of traditional Chinese architecture.

While some Hui now live a life culturally and religiously indistinguishable 
from Han Chinese in first-tier cities such as Shanghai or Beijing, many cities 
in China have a significant Hui Muslim minority population with close-knit 
communities, especially in the northern provinces of Ningxia, Gangsu or 
Quinghai. Traditionally traders, many Hui people are also economically 
successful today, and according to estimates, their religious participation is 
growing.

Increasing religiosity

Dru Gladney, professor at Pomona College in California and leading scholar on 
the Hui people, estimates that today there are twice as many mosques in China 
as there were in 1950, of which a majority were built by Hui Muslims. "The 
amount of practising Muslims among the Hui is rising," Gladney told DW. "For 
example, there is a dramatic increase in the number of Hui women wearing the 
Hijab."  Gladley adds that "the numbers of Hui going on the Haj are going up 
constantly."

DW recommends

China's Xinjiang Muslims 'require DNA samples' for travel documents

Residents of China's Muslim-majority Xinjiang region must provide DNA samples 
when applying for travel documents, according to new rules. Local authorities 
have also put restrictions on fasting during Ramadan. (08.06.2016)
 

Targeting of Islamic customs reflects 'misdiagnosis' of Uighur discontent

Chinese authorities have reportedly ordered Muslim shopkeepers in a Xinjiang 
village to sell alcohol and cigarettes in a bid to undermine Islam's hold on 
local residents. But will this work? DW speaks to James Millward. (11.05.2015)
 

Why China's Uighurs are joining jihadists in Afghanistan

What is driving the Uighur Muslims to increasingly join the ranks of the 
Taliban and al Qaeda in Afghanistan? Analyst Siegfried O. Wolf tells DW why the 
Uighur issue has expanded far beyond China's borders. (24.07.2015)
 

One of the reasons for this is the increased communication with other Muslim 
groups and the ensuing influence of outside Islam – either through Hui scholars 
returning from the Haj or from increased business relationships with the Middle 
East.

Trade between China and the Middle East is growing ever more important for the 
communist country. As a measure to attract Arab business, Yinchuan, the capital 
city of Ningxia and one of the Hui hubs, has gotten a makeover. Construction of 
a new $3.7 billion Islamic theme park called World Muslim City is underway, and 
Arabic lettering has been added to the city's street signs. 

Haiyun Ma, a Hui scholar at Frostberg University takes a critical position 
with regard to the Chinese government's perceived friendliness toward the 
Hui. She told DW that it is more of a sign of "business interest, not of 
religious tolerance."

On the business side, Hui Muslims do play a role as middlemen in trade between 
the Middle East and China. Because of their knowledge of Arabic, numerous Hui 
people are working in Dubai, and for Middle Eastern businesses in China.

Keeping out of politics

Another reason for the Hui's relative freedom are the characteristics that 
distinguish them from the Uighurs. The second-largest Muslim minority is 
ethnically distinct, and does not speak Mandarin as a first language. Most 
importantly, they have a homeland that they wish to claim.

The majority of Uighurs live in the far-western province of Xinjiang. Many of 
the ethno-religious group seek independence from China, and the Uighurs as such 
are oppressed for it. During this year's Ramadan, they were forced to break 
fast and parts of their community were not allowed to attend prayers or travel. 
Most recently, all citizens of Xinjiang were ordered to hand in their passports.

Many big cities like Beijing, pictured here, house a minority of Hui Muslims

But the Hui, partly also due to their diversity and geographic diaspora, and 
partly because of their cultural closeness to Han Chinese, have no political 
aspirations of independence, Gladney said.

Periods of turmoil

This does not mean that the Han and Hui have always got along well. The Dungan 
revolt in the 1860s and 1870s saw an uprising of Muslim and Hui people against 
the Han. The Hui were also oppressed by the government during the Cultural 
Revolution, along with most religious and ethnic minorities. In 1975, hundreds 
of Hui were killed when a separatist movement was suppressed by the People's 
Liberation Army in the southern town of Shadian.

While friendliness toward outside Muslims with business intentions is 
mounting, and numbers suggest that religious activities are on the rise, the 
Hui may have to be on the watch out for another shift in China.

"In the last few years, it has become increasingly difficult for Hui Muslims 
in provinces such as Ningxia to apply for passports, and religious education 
has been restricted," the Hui scholar Ma observed. "The control and mounting 
nationalism of the Chinese government are a threat to the Hui."

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>