 Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping is expected to visit Ireland on Saturday after he finishes his high-profile US tour. 
 In an interview with Deutsche Welle, David O'Brien, an expert on China, talks about the importance of Xi's Ireland visit. David O'Brien is a China researcher at the School of Asian Studies of the University College Cork, Ireland. Deutsche Welle: Vice President Xi Jinping is going to Ireland this week. What is the reason for his visit? David O`Brien: Well I think some eyebrows were raised in Ireland when it was announced that Xi Jinping would visit Ireland as part of his trip to the US and Turkey as very high level trip particularly (because) it was his first visit to the United States. Xi Jinping will spend three days in total in Ireland which for such a small country is a relatively long visit. I think the key thing here is that China sees Ireland as a potential gateway to Europe. We have relatively a large trade volume of 8.3 billion euros between the countries. What makes it interesting is that Ireland is one of the few countries to run a trade surplus with China. And I think trade is the key issue during his visit. There is also I think an emotional aspect to his visit. In that his father Xi Zhongxun, who was involved in the setting up of the Shenzhen special economic zone and he modelled that economic zone very much on the Shannon free trade zone, which I think marks another indication of trade being the key to the visit. Would you also say that Xi is expected to help Ireland financially? Well, I think the indications are that China is going to become more involved in helping the European Union financially. I wouldn't expect any bilateral agreements between China and Ireland to come out of this visit. But the fact that Xi is visiting at a time when Ireland's economy - although showing some signs of recovery - is still in a very precarious situation is of course significant. And the Irish government is extremely well aware of the importance of this visit and the need to continue to grow in the Chinese market. I think from the Irish government’s point of view is that they see this as a real opportunity to develop further trade links with China, as well as develop a personal relationship with the man who will in October become one of the most powerful people in the world. Besides Turkey, Ireland is the only country in Europe Xi is visiting. Do you think there is any special reason for Ireland? Well, I mean the cynic in me kind of looks at it as a stopover - a refueling stop. But there is a personal connection, he is going to Ireland because of his father’s involvement with the setting up of the Shenzhen SEZ, I think he also has an interest in the country. He met our former president Mary McAleese at the Shanghai Expo in 2010 and the meeting was scheduled to last about 45 minutes and in the end it went to almost two hours and I think people were surprised by that and his level of engagement with Ireland. Can you say something about the expectations surrounding his visit in the Irish media? Xi Jinping is still not particularly well known in Ireland and though anyone that follows China or has an interest in China will have heard of him, there hasn't been a huge amount of coverage. You can in no way compare the visit of Xi Jinping with last year’s visit of the Queen of England or President Obama. But I think there is a growing awareness in Ireland of our bilateral relations with China and of the potential for further trade between the two nations. One aspect that of course is commented on is whether or not the Irish government will bring up any of the more controversial issues such as human rights, Tibet, Xinjiang and various other controversial matters. The clear indication in the media is that it is completely off the agenda and that the European Union is the forum for this topic. Was there any reaction in the media about his USA trip, how was it perceived? Well there is coverage in the papers today about it and it certainly is perceived as a meeting that in many ways will potentially go well for both individuals, the leaders of the two world superpowers for the coming years. I think the coverage in the Irish media is maybe focused on the fact that US-Chinese relations are going through a period of transition and as the US becomes more involved in Asia, with the opening of a base in Australia and continuing from a Chinese perspective to become involved in its sphere of influence. Interview: Phyllis Kuhn Editor: Grahame Lucas 　 