 More than 2 million people have gathered in Turkey for a "democracy and martyrs" rally to condemn the failed coup attempt on July 15. DW's Tom Stevenson reports from Istanbul. 
 Sunday's rally in Istanbul's Yenikapi park was but the latest in a string of public events promoted by the Turkish government following a failed coup attempt on July 15. By its sheer size, it was a demonstration unlike any other in Turkey's recent history. People traveled by bus or train from across the city and beyond, creating a sea of people, banners and posters. Some estimates put the number of rallygoers at 3 million or more. When the ample area of Yenikapi park was full, and closed by the police for fear of overcrowding, undeterred throngs massed at the gates and around the park. The people gathered were not only there to support the government in the wake of the military coup. They also protested the widely reviled Turkish preacher Fetullah Gulen, who has lived in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania since 1999 and has been locked in a feud with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) for the past three years. The president has blamed Gulen's followers for launching the coup. "I express my gratitude to our people who laid down their lives to stop helicopters and guns," Erdogan told the rally on Sunday. "They have written their names in gold into our history." The president also pledged to push for the reintroduction of the death penalty in response to what he said were popular calls for its return. Those in attendance ranged from the staunchly religious to the staunchly secular, from supporters of the government to supporters of the opposition. * Erdogan pledges new Turkey Call to the streets During last month’s coup attempt, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on supporters to help defeat military personnel trying to overthrow his ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP). Having thwarted the attempt and crediting much his success to loyalists who filled the street, Erdogan has since asked followers to come out for nightly "Democracy Watch" rallies. * Erdogan pledges new Turkey Once repressed, now empowered On Sunday, the final rallies were held, with a crowd of 2 million in Istanbul and about 10,000 in Ankara. Nearly 80 cities hosted demonstrations in support of Erdogan’s AKP, which is Turkey’s first party with Islamic leanings to survive a military coup. Supporters viewed the victory as a triumph over the republic’s cyclical coups and secular constitution. * Erdogan pledges new Turkey Optimism about a new Turkey Speaking from Istanbul, Erdogan promised to "rebuild Turkey from scratch" and the mood was optimistic among supporters. Lale Alici, (not pictured) an Ankara-based real estate agent who has attended every rally since the coup attempt, said: "When the purges are finished, Turkey will accelerate its development because those who infiltrated our government will no longer be a burden on our country." * Erdogan pledges new Turkey 'We will be a big power' Atalay, (not pictured) an interior designer who didn’t give his full name, said he supported Erdogan because he’s bringing Turkey to the world stage. "Erdogan’s telling the world we’re here and we’ll be a big power," he said. "Even if you don’t like it, you’ll have to accept it. The world’s bigger than the [seven countries in the G7.]" * Erdogan pledges new Turkey Exclusion of HDP Though many attending Sunday’s rallies said they were defending democracy, opponents noted the country’s third-largest political party, the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), was not allowed at the events. "As a Kurd, I can’t go to these rallies because I don’t feel safe," said Havva Ozcan, (not pictured) co-chair of Tuhad-Fed, a prisoners' rights organization. "Not everyone’s welcome." * Erdogan pledges new Turkey 'Temporary socialism' Ozcan also said the rallies received full government support, while other forms of protest have been largely banned. Attendees were not only given free water and food, but the entire public transportation systems in Ankara and Istanbul have been free over the last three weeks to encourage mass mobilization."We are seeing a temporary socialism in Turkey," Ozcan said. * Erdogan pledges new Turkey Social media surge Normally blocked during national emergencies, social media has taken on a prominent place since the coup attempt. From Erdogan’s FaceTime speech to Periscope videos portraying violence against civilians, opponents complained the government allowed uninterrupted access to social media sites only because they proved advantageous. Turkish service providers also gave customers free data packages. * Erdogan pledges new Turkey Empty bars Local businesses have also been hit hard, with some bars in the central Ankara seeing fewer customers since the rallies began. "Business has been affected, of course, but this about much more than business," said Can, a bar manager in Kizilay who only gave his first name. "These rallies are a sign that worse things will come soon." * Erdogan pledges new Turkey 'This is training' Some have viewed the rallies as a way for the AKP to strengthen its support base. Speaking on condition of anonymity, Mohammed, a Syrian refugee who witnessed the Egyptian coup and is now living in Turkey, said the rallies were "training for Erdogan’s followers" and that "soon he may ask them to organize against another movement he doesn’t like." * Erdogan pledges new Turkey Renaming public spaces From Ankara’s Kizilay Square (pictured above after the coup night) to Istanbul’s Bosporus Bridge, prominent sites throughout Turkey have been renamed to honor those who lost their lives during the coup attempt. Now people travelling from the European side of Istanbul to the Asian side will cross the "The Martyrs' of July 15th" bridge. Author: Diego Cupolo, Ankara "The Turkish people have rejected this sect, and we are here to show that we are Muslims and we will not accept military rule in Turkey," said Mehmet Cagi, a 23-year-old from a local Salafi religious group. In addition to the thousands of Turkish flags were the standards of Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Egypt, Azerbaijan and Libya, along with Uighur and Syrian opposition flags. Even a flag from Somaliland, a substate territory seeking independence from Somalia, was visible. "It's great to be here," said Muhumed Mohamed, the bearer of the flag of Somaliland, and one of four students from the territory attending the rally while studying in Turkey. "We are here to support democracy." "You know, some values in this world are universal, and democracy has to be the first one," Mohamed said. The mood turned celebratory after a minute's silence had been observed for the more than 250 civilians and loyalist forces killed in last month's coup attempt. Breaking with tradition, the opposition leaders Kemal Kilicdaroglu, of the Republican People's Party, and Devlet Bahceli, of the Nationalist Movement Party, attended the rally and even spoke alongside Erdogan and Binali Yildirim, the leader of the ruling AKP. Muhumed Mohamed (right) and students from Somaliland who attended the rally Army chief of staff General Hulusi Akar, who was kidnapped during the coup, also addressed the rally in an unplanned speech. The crowd appeared to be constituted by a solid pro-government, religious majority, and the loudest chants entering the rally were religious calls and response and the declaration of faith, the Shahada, in Arabic with a clear Turkish accent. But Turks from all walks of life attended. Conspicuously absent were representatives of the pro-Kurd Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), which, despite opposing the coup attempt, has been excluded from recent anti-coup rallies and was refused an invitation by the ruling AKP. The government has been locked in military campaigns in the Kurdish southeast of Turkey for the past year. "The exclusion of HDP is a very bad, very regrettable decision, and it is a waste," said Hisyar Ozsoy, the party's vice chairman. "The government could have used this opportunity to restart the peace process with the Kurdish movement." "It's clear that they are trying to build a nationalist alliance, and in doing so they are following the logic of the coup plotters," Ozsoy said. "This attitude is the root of nearly every problem in Turkey." Sentiments expressed were not purely position. One man carried an effigy of a lynched man with the words "death to FETÖ," a Turkish acronym meaning "Fetullah Gulen Terrorist Organisation." Some in attendance freely expressed their frustrations with the perceived lackluster support for Turkey's government following the coup from the international community and Europe in particular. "Outside, in Europe, everyone thinks of terrorists when they think of Turkey, but this is the real Turkey," said 36-year-old Safar Engin. "We've been trying to get into Europe for 30 years and been denied, but then there is a coup and where is Europe?" Engin said. "Nowhere. No, we are the ones standing for democracy." 