<ID>20150204-259
<DATE>20150204<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/obama-dalai-lama-meeting-a-diplomatic-rebuff-for-beijing/a-18233813
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Obama-Dalai Lama meeting 'a diplomatic rebuff for Beijing'
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The Dalai Lama will join US President Barack Obama at the National Prayer Breakfast. But while China strongly opposes the meeting, analyst Robert Barnett tells DW tensions over the issue are likely to be short-lived.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Obama will meet the Dalai Lama at the National Prayer Breakfast on Thursday, 
February 5, in Washington. It will be the fourth meeting between the two men 
and the first time they have been together in nearly a year. Each of the 
previous meetings has prompted objections from the Chinese government, which 
regards the Tibetan spiritual leader an anti-Chinese separatist.

 According to media reports, the Dalai Lama will not have a speaking role at 
the prayer breakfast and will be seated with the audience. Nevertheless, the 
Chinese foreign ministry reacted by saying: "We are opposed to any foreign 
leaders meeting with the Dalai Lama in any form." China has ruled Tibet since 
1950, and many Tibetans feel their intensely Buddhist culture is at risk of 
erosion by Beijing's political and economic domination.

 Robert Barnett, Director of the Modern Tibet Studies Program at Columbia 
University, says in a DW interview, that while tensions in Sino-US ties are 
expected to rise due to this meeting, they are likely to be very minor and 
short-lived as the two powers have far too much at stake to risk serious damage 
resulting from this issue.
 

Barnett: 'The meeting will lead to some tensions, but these are likely to be 
very minor and short-lived'

DW: How important is the meeting between Obama and the Dalai Lama?

 Robert Barnett: It is the public nature of this event that makes it 
important. But this importance is of an unusual and unequal kind, because this 
event is much more important for the Chinese side than for the Americans. And 
this gives the US side and the Tibetans a diplomatic advantage in this instance.

 This is the result of differing views about political symbolism. In the West, 
encounters of this kind can be presented as relatively inconsequential rituals 
celebrating notional values or good will, rather than concrete policies. But 
Chinese diplomats regard symbolic events as extremely significant politically. 
So they treat any public encounter between the US President and the Dalai Lama 
as if it marked a major upgrade in official US support for the Dalai Lama's 
objectives.

 There has only been one such public meeting before, which was when President 
Bush awarded the Congressional Gold Medal to the Dalai Lama in public in 2007. 
Though the Americans did not see this as a significant political event, it was 
viewed as a very major setback by Beijing, and they shifted their Tibet policy 
to a markedly tougher stance immediately afterwards.

 In fact, it then became clear that a major reason why Chinese officials had 
always complained so vociferously about private meetings in the past had been 
exactly to deter western leaders from ever agreeing to a public meeting. And 
till this week they surely believed that they had persuaded President Obama not 
to go to that stage with the Dalai Lama. So this is an important moment for 
Beijing, a diplomatic rebuff.

DW recommends

Dalai Lama: 'Hope for the best - prepare for the worst'

On the sidelines of his visit to Hamburg, the Dalai Lama talked exclusively to 
DW about his optimism for Tibet, the situation in Iraq and Syria, and the 
growing number of Tibetan Buddhists in China. (31.08.2014)
 

Sangay: 'Tibetans seek genuine autonomy, not independence'

The leader of Tibet's exiled government, Lobsang Sangay, spoke with DW about 
his new campaign aimed at resuming long-stalled talks with Beijing and 
softening China's handling of his homeland. (06.06.2014)
 

Attacks cast shadow over holy Buddhist site

One of India's holiest sites has been struck by terror attacks. Investigators 
believe the serial blasts which injured two monks could be the result of the 
struggle between Rohingya Muslims and Buddhists in Myanmar. (08.07.2013)
  
Leaders of Tibetans in exile say non-violence is key

As Tibetan monks continue to set themselves on fire in China, the prime 
minister of the Tibetan government in exile has said non-violence and democracy 
are two principles that should not be compromised. (20.08.2012)
 

 The National Prayer Breakfast is held by a number of US congressmen in 
February each year to celebrate their support for religious freedom, and the 
President always attends it. So his attendance at the event can be seen as 
relating to religion rather than politics, and as having no bearing on Sino-US 
policy.

 Indeed, State Department officials have already pointed out that it is not 
even a meeting - it's just an appearance by the two leaders at the same event, 
at which they may not even speak more than a few words together. So this is a 
smart device for them, actually much milder than a private meeting, but at the 
same time sufficient to reassure their domestic audience that they have not 
yielded to Chinese pressure.

 This puts China's diplomats in a somewhat awkward position. They will look 
overly aggressive abroad if they complain too much about an event that is 
clearly relatively minor for the US, but they will look unusually weak if they 
back down from their long-held principle of objecting aggressively to meetings 
of any kind between national leaders and the Dalai Lama. And this week they 
have already declared that this week's encounter in DC is actually "a meeting" 
- so now Beijing cannot easily retreat from the position that it has created 
for itself.

Are Obama and the Dalai Lama expected to hold talks?

 The two leaders – one political and one religious, at least in theory – are 
principal participants at the event. The President will give the keynote 
speech, and the Dalai Lama is expected to say a prayer. But the two may not 
speak together at all, or only briefly, and if they do, it is most likely to be 
about the issue of religious freedom.

 At the same event last year, President Obama in his speech listed countries 
where there are significant restrictions on religions, and specifically 
mentioned the pressures faced by Tibetan Buddhists and Uighur Muslims in China.

 It was only one sentence, but it was the main item in the media reports the 
next day. That is likely to be on the agenda for this year's event as well. The 
President is going to reassure the Chinese at some point, either in his speech 
or through a spokesman, that his view of China's sovereignty over Tibet has not 
changed, and that he does not support Tibetan independence. But otherwise the 
focus is likely to be on symbolism rather than content.

What is the Dalai Lama expected to gain from meeting Obama in public?

 The Dalai Lama had unusual success in the past 25 years in getting the 
Tibetan issue onto the agenda of Western governments and the Western media, and 
has met at least 71 national leaders since 2000 alone. This, with other factors 
– such as the popular support he received when first allowed to visit Taiwan in 
1997 – led the Chinese to hold ten rounds of talks with his representatives 
over the eight years from 2002.
 

Barnett: 'The Dalai Lama had unusual success in the past 25 years in getting 
the Tibetan issue onto the agenda of Western governments'

 But after 2008, when major unrest broke out in Tibet, policy in China became 
much more reactive and conservative, China's diplomacy in Western Europe became 
more aggressive and successful, the talks with the exile Tibetans ground to a 
halt, and the number of western leaders ready to receive the Dalai Lama dropped 
to around two a year.

 So this shared event with the US President is of great significance to the 
exile Tibetans as a signal to China that the Tibet issue is still a live one 
for the US, one for which the US will risk at least a modicum of Chinese 
displeasure.

 That kind of messaging was relatively effective in the 1990s, but it is not 
known whether it will work with Beijing today, where there is a new and much 
more robust leadership than in the recent past.

 The Dalai Lama and his officials take the view that Xi Jinping will turn out 
to be more open to negotiation than his predecessors, because of reports that 
his father was friendly towards the Dalai Lama in the past, and rumors that his 
wife or others near him might be sympathetic towards Buddhism. No-one knows 
whether or not Beijing will or will not move towards serious talks with the 
Dalai Lama in the future, or if western support will make this outcome more 
likely or less.

Chinese media has described the breakfast as tantamount to backing Tibetan 
independence. Why?

 China argues that for any politician to meet the Dalai Lama in any capacity 
means that that politician supports Tibetan independence. This is, for 
non-Chinese observers, the oddest and most puzzling of their arguments, because 
the Dalai Lama gave up asking for independence twenty years ago. He has said 
since then that all he seeks is a "high degree of autonomy" or "genuine 
autonomy" for Tibet, which he accepts would be part of China.
 

Many Tibetans feel their culture is at risk of erosion by Beijing's political 
and economic domination

 There is in fact a series of arguments that lies behind the Chinese 
accusation. According to that argument, the Dalai Lama asked for autonomy in 
the early 1950s, but then changed to seeking independence in the 1960s and 
1970s. Then, in the late 1980s, he stopped calling for independence, but still 
asked for "association" between Tibet and China, which is a form of 
independence.

 So Chinese officials argue that these precedents are signs of duplicity. They 
often point to the fact that he still refers to Tibet as a country or level 
other accusations against him which they say show he is stirring up foreign 
powers to undermine China's unity. Whether sound or not, this view is not 
limited to officials and is very strongly felt within China.

Could this meeting have any repercussions for Tibetans?

 There are some observers who feel that the involvement of the Western powers 
in the Tibetan issue exacerbates tensions in Tibet and leads to more repressive 
and defensive polices by China. Others argue that China will not make 
concessions to Tibetans without foreign pressure. But that pressure is seen as 
provocative by many people in China, probably the vast majority. So this 
argument is unresolved.

 There is also a thesis put forward by some Western scholars, and by some 
Tibetans too, that symbolic gestures of foreign support are counter-productive 
or even damaging. News of the event this week will be relayed into Tibet by 
Tibetan-language and Chinese-language radio stations in the US and Europe, so 
people will know about it and many will quietly celebrate it.

China has ruled Tibet since 1950, and many Tibetans feel their culture is at 
risk of erosion by Beijing's political and economic domination

 But, according to this argument, this risks leading some Tibetans in Tibet to 
believe that Western support is significant and practical – although it is 
clear to outsiders that it is only moral or symbolic.

 As a result, Tibetans might sacrifice themselves or stage immensely dangerous 
protest under a false impression that effective support will come to their aid 
in the form of major Western pressure on Beijing.

How is the meeting likely to affect Sino-US ties?

 It will lead to some tensions, but these are likely to be very minor and 
short-lived – these two powers have far too much at stake to risk serious 
damage accruing from this issue. And these days there are plenty of policy 
advisers in Beijing who will be arguing that a joint appearance at a Prayer 
Breakfast where nothing much is said is a domestic media exercise about which 
China need only make token complaints.

 We don't know which side will dominate in this argument, but we can be sure 
that it will take place. The optimum outcome of this event would be if it 
showed that the US has found a symbolic, mild way to demonstrate robustness to 
its home audience and concerns to China regarding the situation in Tibet 
without damaging overall relations.

Robert Barnett is Director of the Modern Tibet Studies Program at Columbia 
University in New York. His books includeTibetan Modernities: Notes from the 
Field (with Ronald Schwartz, Brill 2008),Lhasa: Streets with Memories 
(Columbia, 2006) and A Poisoned Arrow: The Secret Petition of the 10th Panchen 
Lama (TIN, 1997).

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>