<ID>20150218-19
<DATE>20150218<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/can-china-help-with-afghanistans-peace-process/a-18265401
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Can China help with Afghanistan's peace process?
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Concerned about an Islamic insurgency in Xinjiang Province, China has offered to assist in the Afghan peace process. But experts say China lacks direct access to the Afghan Taliban and relies on its clout over Pakistan.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 China has not been directly involved in Afghan politics since 2001 when 
US-led international forces toppled the Taliban regime. Instead, Beijing has 
focused on economic investments and strengthening trade ties with the war-torn 
country. However, with the end of NATO's military mission in Afghanistan last 
year, Beijing now wants to play a more active role in the region.

 On February 12, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi announced that his country 
was willing to mediate in efforts to engage the Afghan Taliban in peace 
negotiations. "We will support the Afghan government in realizing 
reconciliation with various political factions including the Taliban," said 
Wang during his two-day visit to Pakistan.

No direct line

 Experts believe China lacks direct access to Taliban leaders and relies on 
Pakistan's relations with the militant group. Still, some experts are 
optimistic about Beijing's peace initiative as China has strong strategic ties 
with Islamabad and is trusted as a regional power by Afghanistan and even the 
Taliban.
 

Experts say China has no direct access to Taliban leaders

 "Given the mistrust between Kabul and Islamabad both countries want a 
regional power like China, which has their trust, to play a facilitating role 
in peace talks. The Taliban, too, trust Beijing and this all can help the 
Afghan peace process," Haroon Mir, analyst and a former member of Afghanistan's 
Centre for Research and Policy Studies, told DW.

 "China is in contact with some Taliban members, but when Beijing offers help 
with the peace process, it actually means the Taliban that are in contact with 
Islamabad," Mir added.

 Pakistan, a close strategic ally to China, was one of the first countries to 
recognize the Taliban regime when they seized power in late 1990s. The Afghan 
government has accused Islamabad of supporting the militant group's guerilla 
war against Afghan and international forces since 2001. Pakistan, however, has 
always officially denied the allegations.

DW recommends

Beijing's support for Afghan reconciliation 'more of a burden than an 
opportunity'

China has offered to support the Afghan government in reconciling with the 
Taliban. But while Beijing brings major diplomatic and economic weight to the 
table, the prospects of success are slim, as Andrew Small tells DW. (12.02.2015)
 

The Sino-Pakistani axis: Asia's 'little understood' relationship

China and Pakistan have been described as "all weather friends," but the 
nature of their ties remains secretive. DW talks to analyst Andrew Small, about 
some of the most sensitive aspects of this strategic relationship. (15.01.2015)
 

'Pakistan could have 200 nuclear weapons by 2020'

While many states are downsizing their nuclear stockpiles, Asia is witnessing 
a buildup. Pakistan, located in a region "most at risk of a breakdown," has the 
fastest-growing nuclear program, as Gregory Koblentz tells DW. (02.12.2014)
 

Assessing India's position on NATO's Afghanistan pullout

Just weeks before NATO combat troops leave Afghanistan, neighboring India and 
Pakistan are vying for influence in the war-torn nation. Analyst Michael 
Kugelman talks to DW about New Delhi's view of the impending pullout. 
(24.11.2014)
 

 A Taliban delegation recently visited China, but the group's spokesman said 
the visit was not to discuss Beijing's role in Afghan peace process. Zhu 
Yongbiao, an associate professor at Institute for Central Asian Studies (ICAS) 
of Lanzhou University, believes the visit was intended to establish initial 
contacts and build trust.

 "The current contact with the Taliban is more like an initial attempt to 
establish a connection for the future and to prepare for a more active 
engagement in Afghanistan. The main purpose is not to act as a mediator right 
now," he told DW. The Chinese expert also believes China lacks direct and 
effective means of intervention and participation in Afghanistan's peace 
process, but could still play a supportive role as a "provider of funds" in the 
future.

Concerns over Xinjiang

 But China's interest in the Afghan peace process is not limited to its desire 
to increase its regional influence. Andrew Small, a fellow with the Asia 
program of German Marshall Fund of the United States, told DW that China was 
worried about the implications of the West's drawdown in Afghanistan and its 
effect on Xinjiang province.

 "Beijing fears that a deteriorating situation there [in Afghanistan] could 
have destabilizing implications for Xinjiang, China's restive northwestern 
province, and for the wider region, impacting on China's ambitions for a 'Silk 
Road economic belt' and risking a proxy war between India and Pakistan," Small 
said in a DW interview.

 The Uyghur nationalist East Turkestan Islamic Movement, active in Xinjiang, 
used Afghanistan as a safe haven when the Taliban were in power in Afghanistan. 
If faced with another civil war, the Chinese fear that Afghanistan could once 
again become a safe haven for Uyghur insurgents. On the other hand, Beijing is 
worried that an even longer war in Afghanistan will put its economic 
investments in the war-torn county in jeopardy.

Protecting investments

 Ahmad Saedi, an expert on Afghanistan, said protecting its present or future 
investments in Afghanistan was one of the main factors behind China's interest 
in Afghan peace process.
 

China has increased its economic aid and investment in Afghanistan over the 
past years

 "China has huge economic interests in a safe Afghanistan, as some Chinese 
companies have signed big contracts with the Afghan government. Beijing is 
worried about the faith of these contracts as international troops leave 
Afghanistan," Saedi said.

 China has increased its economic aid and investment in Afghanistan over the 
past four years. Metallurgical Corporation of China has the biggest contract 
with Afghan government which amounts to 3.5 billion dollars in order to develop 
Aynak Copper mines. The company is yet to start actual work as insecurity has 
been the main obstacle for the Chinese in Afghanistan.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>