<ID>20160408-94
<DATE>20160408<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/germany-and-china-want-stability-in-the-middle-east/a-19173159
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
'Germany and China want stability in the Middle East'
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier has arrived in China on a two-day official visit. In a DW interview, China expert Moritz Rudolf discusses Germany's China policy and bilateral relations.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

DW: What are the most important foreign and security issues for China and 
Germany?

 Moritz Rudolf: Germany and China want political stability in the Middle East, 
especially in Syria and Afghanistan. The conflicts in these countries 
indirectly affect Berlin and Beijing, and that is the reason why both these 
countries are involved in Syrian talks. Germany has an interest in resolving 
the Syrian crisis as it is facing an influx of refugees from the war-torn 
country. China wants a stable Middle East so that it can proceed with its Silk 
Road plans.

 China fears that an escalation of the civil war in Afghanistan could 
destabilize its western Xinjiang region. Therefore, China supports the US, 
Pakistan and Afghanistan in their efforts to engage in peace talks with the 
Taliban. Germany has long been engaged in Afghanistan, and it is in Berlin's 
interest that the Afghan government doesn't fail.

 Both countries are also concerned about their radicalized citizens receiving 
militant training in the Middle East, and the threat they could pose when they 
return to Germany and China.
 

Rudolf: 'Germany wants China to increase its involvement in international 
peace efforts'

Germany wants China to increase its involvement in the "international security 
architecture." Its aim is that Beijing accepts more political responsibility to 
deal with global security challenges. On the other hand, China wants to be seen 
as a responsible actor in world politics, but without raising its stakes. 
However, in the case of North Korea's belligerence, Beijing has proven it is 
fully capable to take over security responsibilities.

Is the fight against Islamic terrorism a new element of cooperation between 
Berlin and Beijing? So far, the West has been critical, and has seen China's 
fight against Islamists in Xinjiang as repressive.

 It would be welcomed if Germany and China could find a way to separate the 
conflict in Xinjiang from the terrorism discourse. This is precisely what had 
failed in the past – a common approach to combat Islamic extremism. I expect 
that China would be willing to compromise on this issue and acknowledge that 
cooperation in combating terrorism does not imply endorsement of its minority 
policies.

 The far-reaching infrastructure projects in Eurasia draw China into areas 
where Islamist terrorism is a major threat. Therefore, Chinese nationals are a 
potential target for Islamic terrorists who do not have direct connections to 
the conflict in Xinjiang.

Both sides want - as evident by statements released after their first 
"strategic dialogue" in November last year – a dialogue on international law 
and regional issues. In this respect, tensions in the East and South China Sea 
come to mind. Japan, which hosts the G7 meeting this year, is directly involved 
in the conflict. What role could Berlin play in this regard?

 Germany should work towards finding a legal solution to the territorial 
conflicts. A tribunal recognized by all parties could resolve the disputes, but 
Beijing prefers bilateral solutions. Berlin could assume the role of a mediator 
in the East and South China Sea conflicts. But Germany would first have to be a 
part of the conflict in order to be recognized as a serious mediator. For this 
to happen, Germany could initially increase pressure on China by providing, for 
example, military equipment to countries bordering the South China Sea. Berlin 
would then certainly find its place at the negotiating table. This scenario is 
quite possible in light of the worsening situation.

What chances for cooperation could arise from the fact that China chairs the 
G20 group this year and Germany will take over next year? What could be the 
possible outcomes? China has increased foreign investments in Europe, and is 
also proposing to finance land and sea passages (known as the "New Silk Road") 
to Europe for an increase in economic exchange.

 The "economic connectivity" between Asia and Europe could serve as a link 
between the Chinese and German chairmanships of the G20 bloc. As chairman of 
the Organization of Security and Cooperation in Europe, Germany has 
demonstrated that it understands the importance of China's Silk Road 
initiative. A major obstacle to this is that the Chinese initiative is not 
concrete enough to convince other countries of its merits.

 Germany could contribute to the Eurasian economic connectivity by creating an 
institutional framework and protecting its own interests at the same time. For 
example, Berlin wants the Chinese initiative to be more sustainable, with the 
keywords being "Green Silk Roads."

Moritz Rudolf is a researcher at the Berlin-based Mercator Institute for China 
Studies. He focuses on China's foreign policy and geo-strategy.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>