<ID>20160831-90
<DATE>20160831<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/why-us-china-rivalry-is-unsettling-south-asia/a-19516733
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Why US-China rivalry is unsettling South Asia
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The US and India have agreed to bolster defense and trade ties with an aim to minimize China's influence in South Asia. Beijing and Islamabad are forging their own alliance, which could increase tension in the region.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 US Secretary of State John Kerry, who is currently on a trip to India, has 
made it clear that Washington wants to see India in a more powerful role in the 
South Asian region. Not only is the US moving ahead on a nuclear deal with 
India, it is also aiming to increase the bilateral trade to around $500 billion 
(448 billion euros) annually.

 "I'm very, very confident that we will continue to strengthen what President 
Obama has called the defining partnership of the 21st century," Kerry said in 
New Delhi, adding that cooperation on trade and security had "room to be able 
to further grow."

 "We also hope to see our civil nuclear cooperation take shape in the form of 
new reactors that will deliver reliable electricity to tens of millions of 
Indian households," Kerry said.

 The US is actively supporting New Delhi's bid for the Nuclear Suppliers Group 
(NSG), which has been opposed by India's archrivals China and Pakistan.
 

Beijing is expanding trade and military cooperation with Islamabad keeping in 
view the India-US maneuvers

Indian Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj said the India-US military cooperation 
would also get a boost as her country wanted to build more sophisticated 
hardware at home with US cooperation.

 "We want to take our expanding defense cooperation to the next stage of 
co-production and co-development," Swaraj said at a conference alongside Kerry.

New strategic formations

 Experts say that the US wants India to play a greater role in the region to 
counter China's growing strategic and military assertiveness.

 Amit Cowshish, a former Financial Advisor (Acquisition) for India's Ministry 
of Defense, says it is logical and understandable that the US considers India a 
committed ally in the South Asian region: "Shared democratic values and common 
interests in fields other than defense are the main drivers of the India-US 
relationship, but it is India's role as a stabilizing factor in the region and 
convergence between the two countries on US policy of Rebalance in Asia-Pacific 
and India's Act East policy that drives close defense ties," Cowshish told DW.

 The changing geopolitics in South Asia has prompted Pakistan to forge closer 
ties with its long-time ally China. Beijing is expanding trade and military 
cooperation with Islamabad keeping in view the New Delhi-Washington maneuvers.

DW recommends

Examining India's unsuccessful NSG bid

Despite India's fervent push for admission into the Nuclear Suppliers Group 
(NSG), the country remains outside the elite body that regulates nuclear trade 
worldwide - for now. DW examines the reasons behind this. (24.06.2016)
  
PM Modi looking to buttress India-US ties

Modi is all set to start his fourth trip to the US after becoming Indian 
premier, in a sign of deepening Indo-US political and military engagement amid 
China's growing clout and assertiveness in the Asia-Pacific region. (06.06.2016)
  
Examining Saudi-Pakistani ties in changing geopolitics

Suffering setbacks in Yemen, Saudi Arabia seeks closer ties and increased 
military cooperation with East and South Asian countries. Analysts say Pakistan 
provides a stepping stone for Riyadh's "look east" policy. (30.08.2016)
 

 Last year, China announced an economic project in Pakistan worth $46 billion 
(41 billion euros). With the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Beijing 
aims to expand its influence in Pakistan and across Central and South Asia in 
order to counter US and Indian influences. The CPEC would link Pakistan's 
southern Gwadar port on the Arabian Sea to China's western Xinjiang region. It 
also includes plans to create road, rail and oil pipeline links to improve 
connectivity between China and the Middle East.

 Pakistan is currently grappling with an acute economic crisis. Experts say 
the CPEC can certainly stir the much-needed economic activity in the country.

 "Pakistan knows that China is going to be the superpower in ten years. 
Islamabad is getting closer to Beijing and its alliance with Washington is 
slowly and gradually taking a back seat," Ali Shah, a Pakistani researcher in 
Karachi, told DW.

 The conflicting interests of the US and China in Asia and the new strategic 
formations have already spiked tensions in the region. The Indian-Pakistani 
ties are at their worst with both neighboring countries accusing each other of 
sponsoring terrorism.

 Since July 8, the Indian part of Kashmir has been in a grip of violence. New 
Delhi has accused Islamabad of supporting separatist groups in the valley. 
Pakistan, in turn, has alleged that Indian intelligence agencies have been 
backing an insurgent movement in its western Balochistan province.

 Kerry acknowledged that the deteriorating ties between India and Pakistan 
were having a negative impact on the security situation in the region, 
particulary in Afghanistan, where American troops are stationed. The top US 
diplomat chose to be tough with Islamabad.

 "It is clear that Pakistan has work to do in order to push harder against its 
indigenous groups that are engaged in extremist terrorist activities," Kerry 
said in an address to students in New Delhi. "They must work with us to help 
clear the sanctuaries of bad actors who are affecting not only relations 
between Pakistan and India but also our ability to achieve peace and stability 
in Afghanistan," he added.

Pakistan concerned

 The warming ties between India and the US have alarmed Islamabad, analysts 
say.

 "The US-India security agreements will have an impact on Pakistan. Islamabad 
is rightly worried. Why should Pakistan then work for the US interests in 
Afghanistan?" Talat A. Wazarat, an International Relations expert from Karachi, 
told DW.
 

Ties between Kabul and New Delhi have improved a lot

 "The new strategy is aimed at containing China's influence, but Pakistan is 
also bearing the brunt. China, Iran and Russia should also take the US-India 
deals very seriously and do something about it," she added.

 Shuakat Qadir, a security analyst and former brigadier in the Pakistani army, 
told DW that Islamabad would take action against the militants on its own 
volition. "We are already fighting terrorists. The US needs to review its 
policies also," Qadir said.

 Pakistan's military and civilian establishment, analysts say, still consider 
the Taliban an important strategic ally, who they think should be part of the 
Afghan government after the NATO pullout. Observers say that the Pakistani 
military hopes to regain the influence in Kabul it once enjoyed before the 
United States and its allies toppled the pro-Pakistan Taliban government in 
2001.

 "Kabul is friendlier towards New Delhi now, whereas Islamabad continues to 
back the Taliban. Pakistan wishes to change this scenario and turn Afghanistan 
into its political backyard once again," London-based journalist and researcher 
Farooq Sulehria told DW.

 Nonetheless, some experts blame the growing US-China rivalry for the 
worsening state of security in South Asia and believe it could trigger new 
conflicts and plunge the region into a deeper turmoil. India and Pakistan, they 
say, are only adjusting to changing geopolitics.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>