<ID>20140523-8
<DATE>20140523<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/wuc-chinas-xinjiang-policy-backfiring/a-17656416
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
WUC: China's Xinjiang policy 'backfiring'
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
A day after China's restive Xinjiang region suffered a major attack, Alim Seytoff from the World Uyghur Congress tells DW the area is witnessing a violent response to China's 65-year-long "brutal repression" of Uighurs.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 On May 22, attackers ploughed two vehicles into an open market in Urumqi, the 
capital of China's western Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, hurling 
explosives which killed 31 people and wounded 95, according to Chinese 
authorities. The incident comes after a series of violent episodes at transport 
hubs throughout China which Beijing blames on Islamists and separatists from 
the restive region where Muslim Uighurs (also spelled Uyghur) make up around 45 
percent of the population.

 Chinese President Xi Jinping has vowed to follow a "strike-first approach 
against terrorists in the region," according to state news agency Xinhua, 
stating that long-term stability was "vital to the whole country's reform." But 
in a DW interview, Alim Seytoff, spokesperson of the World Uyghur Congress 
(WUC) warns that China's "heavy-handed" approach will only further alienate 
members of the ethnic group who already feel their rights to have their own 
language, religion and identity are being violated by Beijing.

DW: No responsibility has been claimed for these attacks. In your view, who is 
responsible for this?

 Alim Seytoff: We're not sure who is responsible for the attack either. It is 
simply too early to tell. However, it is the Chinese government which is 
blaming the Uighurs. Every time something like this happens, Beijing almost 
immediately jumps to conclusions, blaming the Uighur people and using it as an 
opportunity to justify its repression.
  
"Both East Turkistan and Tibet are occupied and colonized not only by Chinese 
military forces, but also by millions of settlers," says Seytoff, seen here (R) 
next to exiled Uighur leader Rebiya Kadeer

What is your opinion on the Chinese government's view that these attacks are 
linked to separatist movements from Xinjiang?

 We are not sure this is about so-called separatism or terrorism. This is 
rather a response to China's 65-year-long brutal repression of the Uighur 
people. Beijing's policies have always been about "attacking and striking hard" 
at the Uighurs, instead of respecting their rights enshrined into China's 
Constitution and regional ethnic autonomy laws.

 While the territory's name, "Xinjiang's Uyghur Autonomous Region," would 
indicate that Uighurs should have rights under an autonomy arrangement, the 
reality is that Beijing has never respected those rights and, in fact, has 
taken them away. This applies, for instance, to the Uighurs' rights to have 
their own Uighur language, culture, identity as well as religious beliefs and 
practices.

 When Uighurs complain about infringement, they are then demonized by the 
Chinese authorities, harassed, sent to prison and even killed. As a result, we 
are witnessing this violent opposition to the Chinese government's heavy-handed 
approach to Uighur issues.

Can you sympathize with the Chinese government's position that it is Beijing's 
duty and responsibility to implement measures to keep citizens safe from such 
attacks?

 That is what the Chinese government claims. According to its propaganda, 
Beijing respects the rights of all minority groups. But it is important to 
point out that China is not a democracy. It is ruled by an authoritarian 
one-party communist system and minorities such as Uighurs, Mongols, Tibetans 
and even the ethnic majority of Han Chinese have suffered tremendously under it.

DW recommends

Opinion: China's iron fist comes down where it shouldn't

Over 30 people have died in China's northwestern Xinjiang province in a 
pointless attack. Beijing's "iron fist" politics have failed to put an end to 
such violence for a reason, says DW's Matthias von Hein. (22.05.2014)
 

Uighur leader: 'Highly suspicious of Beijing's terror claim'

After a fatal car crash at Tiananmen Square, Uighurs fear more restrictions by 
authorities in China. Exiled leader Rebiya Kadeer says Beijing is using the 
incident as an excuse to further oppress the ethnic minority. (08.11.2013)
 

Ethnic tensions escalating in Xinjiang

The latest incidents of deadly violence in China's northwestern region of 
Xinjiang indicate that Beijing's policies towards ethnic minorities have 
reached a dead end. (05.07.2013)
  
China flexes muscles at home and abroad

China's new leadership has to walk a fine line between keeping a balance at 
home and throwing its weight around abroad. The rest of the world will be 
watching closely, writes Wenfang Tang for DW's Transatlantic Voices. 
(15.11.2012)
  
 However, there is an important aspect to this. Following China's opening up, 
Beijing helped the Han Chinese improve their lives and make money. But instead 
of supporting the country's minorities in a similar way, the government tried 
to forcibly assimilate them and destroy all those who stood against its brutal 
rule. The reality is that Uighurs and Tibetans and other groups face brutal 
oppression from Chinese communists.

 Furthermore, both East Turkistan and Tibet are occupied and colonized not 
only by Chinese military forces, but also by millions of Chinese settlers who 
have come to our land to lead good lives with good jobs and a high standard of 
living guaranteed by the Chinese government. At the same time Uighurs and 
indigenous populations live in poverty and are not allowed to speak their own 
language or practice their culture and religion. This is the root cause of the 
problem.

Do you believe Beijing has an understanding of the needs of the Uighur people? 

 Beijing has a very good understanding of the needs and political demands of 
the Uighur people. But the problem is that the Chinese government doesn't 
respect them. While the authorities understand what Uighurs want, it is in the 
nature of this authoritarian colonial power to never want to grant legitimate 
rights to those occupied. It always finds a way to justify its occupation and 
that is what China has been doing.

Over the years Beijing has rejected Uighur complaints about political, social 
and economic repression, saying it has poured money into the region to develop 
it. What is your view on this?

 It is true that China has developed East Turkistan, Tibet, Inner Mongolia and 
other historically non-Chinese territories. The government has invested a lot 
of money in these regions to build high-rise buildings, highways, airports and 
train stations. But this infrastructure is not meant for the benefit of the 
Uighurs, Tibetans or other groups.

 The railways, for instance, have been constructed to transfer millions of 
Chinese people to occupy and colonize the land. As soon as the Han Chinese 
arrive, they are given special treatment in terms of jobs, housing, health care 
and rights otherwise denied to Uighurs.
  
"China's attempts to crack down on our religious practices have been 
backfiring," says Seytoff

The development of infrastructure doesn't justify this brutal treatment. There 
are similar examples in history: When the British occupied India, they also 
built railways, roads, factories, and schools, but does that give them the 
right to occupy India? No.

Do you see any changes taking place in the religious attitude of the Uighur 
people?

 The Uighur people have traditionally practiced a modern form of Sunni Islam. 
However, after 65 years, China's atheist and communist education system 
alongside its attempt to secularize and crack down on our religious practices 
have been backfiring.

 The Chinese government's heavy-handed repression of Uighurs is backfiring and 
forcing an increasing number of them into clinging ever-more to their religious 
beliefs and practices. The last thing they can hold on to is their religion 
because every other aspect of their lives - their language and identity - is 
being attacked and criminalized by the Chinese government.

Alim Seytoff is spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress in Washington DC. 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>