<ID>20140917-75
<DATE>20140917<\DATE>
<CONVURL>
http://www.asianews.it/index.php?idn=1&art=32180
<\CONVURL>
<URL>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/On-trial-for-separatism,-Ilham-Tohti-says-Uighurs-and-Han-Chinese-have-the-same-problems-in-Xinjiang-32180.html
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
 On trial for separatism, Ilham Tohti says Uighurs and Han Chinese have the same problems in Xinjiang
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Jailed in January, the economist has never supported separatism. However, he has called on Beijing to talk with Uighurs and check its corrupt local government, which angers both Uighurs and Han Chinese. However, Chinese government repression could generate a more unified and violent movement.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>
   

Urumqi (AsiaNews) - Economist and university professor Ilham Tohti went on 
trial today. Accused of Uighur "separatism",he was arrested last January 

 for criticising Beijing's policy after anattack in Tiananmen Square 

, in October 2013, blamed on Uighurs.The government responded to the attack by 
increasing its repression in the Xinjiang region.

For years, Tothi has called on the Chinese government to open a real dialogue 
with the Uighurs. For this purpose, he set up a website, Uighur online, to 
allow Uighurs and Han Chinese to talk. However, for his accusers, the website 
is evidence of the scholar's "separatism".

In reality, as the text below shows, Tohti only wants the two sides to hear 
each other out and greater checks on those who currently rule Xinjiang because 
their corruption is a source of problems for Uighurs and Han alike. For the 
Uighur scholar, repression is not the answer and the violence associated with 
it explains the desperate response by Uighurs.

Over the past few decades, China has tried to supress Xinjiang's independence 
movement by bringing in hundreds of thousands of ethnic Han Chinese settlers. 
This has led to the political and social marginalisation of indigenous Uighurs, 
a Turkic ethnic group. 

What is more, their religious practice has been severely curtailed. Mosques 
and Qur'anic schools are under tight control; religious practices like fasting 
and praying have been mocked; and jail time and the death penalty have been 
liberally meted out.

Soon after Tohti's arrest, his close friend Tibetan writer Tsering Woeser put 
together an outline of Tohti's ideas in February.AsiaNews is publishing them, 
courtesy of China Change, which provided the original translation from Chinese.




Currently in Xinjiang, a developing tendency is that the authorities are 
over-extending anti-terrorism measures to conceal other problems in their name, 
including the incompetence of both the local governments and the security 
maintenance apparatus. In fact, the biggest problem in Xinjiang is not 
anti-terrorism, nor is it terrorism, but rather, the problem is that political 
power is unrestrained, unequal, controlled and monopolized by the very groups 
that profit from it.

---

I've seen this in Xinjiang: the more the authorities suppress religion, the 
more the Uighur people embrace religion. What should the government do? The 
government repeatedly applies pressure when in fact it should first examine 
itself. If they cannot govern themselves, then they cannot govern the country. 
If they cannot govern themselves, if they do not change their way of dealing 
with and thinking about the Uighurs, if they do not respect the people's right 
to speak, including respecting the Uighurs' right to ethnic autonomy, then the 
conflicts between the Uighurs and the government will become more and more 
pronounced.

---

In 2009 when I was under house arrest, I warned the Chinese government that 
future protests by the Uighurs could become a protest movement the scale of 
which would surpass anything seen in the past sixty years. The government would 
see the Uighurs become more and more united in this protest movement. I now 
boldly predict that, if the government does not change its policies toward the 
Uighurs, the Uighurs will more and more choose to confront the government in 
order to make their appeals.

---

Some Han Chinese scholars say that the issues confronting the Uighur and the 
Han are fundamentally the same. I agree somewhat with this statement because, 
from the perspective of human rights, government, and democracy, the Uighur and 
the Han face the same issues. Nonetheless, the Uighurs also face a particular 
problem: social resources. We Uighurs also face such problems as ethnic and 
religious discrimination, and so on, due to the great differences we Uighurs 
have with the mainstream Han culture, including language, physical appearance, 
religious beliefs, and so on.

---

At present, Xinjiang is under the "one village one police station, one 
household one police officer" campaign.1 This campaign came into effect after 
Zhang Chunxian (张春贤) took office in Xinjiang. The campaign stipulates that one 
village will have one police station and each police officer will be 
responsible for a single household. The personnel making visits to the villages 
and households include cadres, unemployed people whom the government hires, 
even some young ruffians, people on government subsidies, police officers, 
special weapons and tactics (SWAT) officers, and so on. I absolutely could not 
put up with people like this randomly breaking into my house.

---

At present in Xinjiang, the exclusion of and discrimination against Uighurs is 
quite systematic, with the government leading the way . . . the Uighurs' 
dissatisfaction with the government is unanimous with no internal 
disagreements. After all these years in Xinjiang, the government has failed to 
cultivate a Uighur vested interest group. There are some Uighurs with vested 
interests, but they are few and far between. I believe that, in this respect, 
the government has failed miserably; they failed even to achieve this.

---

I have always upheld the unity of the nation and opposed separatism. I have 
never had a thought of secession, thus I have not participated in any 
separatist activities, let alone organizing a so-called separatist 
organization. I advocate governing Xinjiang according to the law, including 
implementing and improving the regional ethnic autonomy system, respecting the 
rule of law, respecting human rights, allowing each ethnic group to share 
equitably the fruits of development, equality in employment, elimination of 
discrimination, including discrimination based on locality, ethnicity, gender, 
and personal status." [This paragraph is atweet 
 of Ilham's lawyer 
@xiao_xiaoyuan.]

---

Right up to the present, although I've been in difficult circumstances, I have 
never sought financial assistance from any country. I will not be anyone's 
lackey. I am an independent person who thinks independently. I am a Uighur 
intellectual. My first responsibility is to my people, the Uighurs, to my 
hometown, and to my country. I will not be anyone's lackey.

---

I admire the American system, I like America's academic freedom, I like 
American values such as the protection of human rights, respect for the 
opinions of political minorities, freedom of religion, freedom of the press, 
democracy, and so on. I am not, however, an American. Nor do I believe that the 
Uighur issue can be solved by depending on the U.S. The issues facing Uighurs 
ultimately can only be solved through a mutual dialogue between the Han and the 
Uighurs.

---

I make no appeal whatsoever to the international community. What we need is 
for the Communist government to take a responsible attitude and to reflect on 
its Xinjiang policies. The government should not politicize individual criminal 
cases or make them ethnically specific. It must act based on evidence. (A Voice 
of America video interview on November 07, 2013)

---

I am not going anywhere. The issues facing the Uighur are in China, and the 
resolution of these issues is also in China. If I have to be imprisoned, then I 
will remain in a Chinese prison. After my release from prison, I will still be 
in China seeking a future for the Uighurs. If I die, I have only one desire: to 
be buried in my hometown. It would be enough of a solace for me.

 

Translator's note: the "one village one police station, one household one 
police officer" was a campaign initiated by Zhang Chunxian, a Politburo Member 
and the Party Secretary for the Uighur Autonomous Region, as a means to more 
tightly control Uighur villages.

 

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>