<ID>20160118-69
<DATE>20160118<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/xis-delicate-balancing-act-in-the-middle-east/a-18987212
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Xi's delicate balancing act in the Middle East
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Closer economic ties will top the agenda during Chinese President Xi Jinping's visits to Egypt, Iran and Saudi Arabia this week. However, Chinese mediation in the feud between Tehran and Riyadh is unlikely, say experts.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 President Xi is visiting the three Middle Eastern countries from January 19 
to 24, said China's Foreign Ministry. The trip - the first by a Chinese head of 
state to Saudi Arabia since 2009, to Egypt since 2004, and to Iran since 2002 - 
comes just days after international sanctions on Iran were lifted following the 
UN nuclear agency's announcement that Tehran had scaled back its nuclear 
program.

 But the three-nation tour also comes amid an intensifying rivalry between 
Tehran and Riyadh following Sunni-majority Saudi Arabia's execution in early 
January of Shiite cleric Nimr al-Nimr, which prompted outrage among Shiites. 
After Iranian protesters responded by storming Saudi diplomatic facilities in 
the country, Riyadh severed relations with Tehran, which, in turn, cut all 
commercial ties with Riyadh.

 In light of the growing regional tensions, Chinese Vice Foreign Minister 
Zhang Ming recently told reporters China would not be taking sides. "Regarding 
some of the region's problems, China has always taken a balanced and just 
position," Zhang was quoted as saying. A few days later, Zhang added the 
Chinese have maintained thorough communication with countries in the Middle 
East through various channels "in a bid to ease regional tensions."

A diplomatic push?

 The overlap of President Xi's visit with the deterioration of Iranian-Saudi 
relations has prompted speculation that China is trying to promote itself as a 
potential mediator. But analysts such as Flynt Leverett, a professor of 
international affairs at Penn State University, believes such speculation is 
"overblown" given that Xi's trip has been in the works for well over a year.

DW recommends

China seeking to link Iran to its New Silk Road

Iran is arguably one of China's closest partners in the Middle East. And with 
economic sanctions on Tehran set to be eased, DW examines China's latest 
proposal to integrate Iran into its New Silk Road Initiative. (15.12.2015)
 

Diplomatic tensions worsen over Saudi-Iran row

The UAE, Bahrain and Sudan have joined Riyadh in cutting ties with Iran over 
the ransacking of the Saudi embassy in Tehran. Violence flared after the 
execution in Saudi Arabia of Shiite cleric Nimr al-Nimr. (04.01.2016)
 

Chinese President Xi defends national sovereignty online

According to Chinese President Xi Jinping, every country should have 
independent control over its own Internet. But rights groups have said China is 
only trying to justify its own efforts to enforce authority online. (16.12.2015)
 

Is an oil policy change in the pipeline?

Saudi Arabia could suggest a coordinated cut in oil production as delegates of 
oil-exporting countries meet in Vienna. The move would be a departure from 
current OPEC policy amid a global supply glut. (03.12.2015)
  
 "Once in the region, Xi will undoubtedly affirm, at the highest levels, the 
message that both sides should show restraint and work to deescalate bilateral 
tensions. Beyond this, though, China is unlikely to seek an ongoing diplomatic 
role for itself," Leverett told DW.

 Zhiqun Zhu, Director of The China Institute at Bucknell University, agrees. 
The expert points out that China's primary interests in the Middle East are 
economic and strategic, and that Xi's visit is therefore not intended to 
resolve the regional dispute.

 "President Xi is likely to emphasize China's policy that disputes need to be 
resolved peacefully through dialogue. However, anyone hoping that China will 
serve as an honest broker to bring the disputants together will be 
disappointed," he told DW.

 This view is shared by Andrew Small, a fellow with the Asia program of the 
German Marshall Fund of the United States. The expert in Chinese foreign policy 
argues that Beijing would have preferred not to be visiting Saudi Arabia and 
Iran on the same itinerary. "But it would have been even more problematic in 
the present circumstances to visit one country without the other, so the 
Chinese have bitten the bullet and gone ahead with this 'paired' trip," the 
expert told DW.

 Nonetheless, Small added, China is still cautious about taking on a serious 
political role in the Middle East, and this is "neither a situation where the 
two parties involved in the feud are soliciting Beijing's help as a broker, nor 
one where it has much leverage to do so either."

 The regional rivalry is also believed to be one of the main reasons why it 
has taken so long for a Chinese president to visit these three countries - all 
of which are founding members of the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment 
Bank (AIIB). In fact, the Middle East has thus far been the missing region from 
President Xi's global diplomacy push, with visits to all three countries having 
been postponed since last year.

A window of opportunity

 Xi was expected to visit Saudi Arabia and Egypt last spring, with Iran to 
follow on a subsequent trip, but the timing coincided with the Saudis launching 
their military campaign in Yemen, so the trip was postponed.
 

China imports on average one million barrels of crude per day from Saudi Arabia

 "The delays have become a political point of sensitivity, particularly with 
Iran, which has been actively soliciting a visit for some time. But there were 
additional reasons for holding off, as China waited for the nuclear deal to 
come into effect," said Small, adding that the fact that it has taken so long 
into Xi's term to embark on such a trip is indicative of how "politically 
challenging" the region is for the Chinese leadership.

 It therefore seems that Beijing is still treading carefully in the Middle 
East. In fact, at five days, the tour will be a relatively short one - Xi spent 
almost as much time in the UK alone as he's spending in these three countries 
combined.

 "President Xi is more about conflict avoidance than outright mediation, and 
he's is traveling to both Iran and Saudi Arabia to maintain a balance. So the 
decision to go now is probably because this is a window of opportunity before 
things get worse," Michal Meidan, a China expert at UK-based think tank Chatham 
House, told DW.

Not just oil

 And with Iran poised to open to the world again, many argue there is also an 
imperative for the Chinese to take steps to consolidate their ties with the 
region. In fact, some of the areas where China wants to boost cooperation with 
the Middle East range from satellite technology to renewable energy and nuclear 
technology.

 Since the 1990s, China has cultivated both Iran and Saudi Arabia as two of 
its most important oil suppliers. The growth of those links has also spurred 
broader expansion of economic ties, with China becoming a leading source of 
exports and investment for both Iran and Saudi Arabia.

 Moreover, as Professor Leverett points out, China has come to appreciate the 
need for an at least minimally balanced distribution of power in the Persian 
Gulf in order to "forestall open-ended American hegemony" and prevent 
Washington from using the region's hydrocarbons as leverage against China. 
"This makes Iran, in particular, increasingly critical in Beijing's strategic 
calculations," said Leverett, who is also author of "Going to Tehran: Why 
America Must Accept the Islamic Republic of Iran."

 As a result, analysts such as Small believe Beijing will try to move quickly 
to become one of the first nations to take full advantage of Iran's opening - a 
development China's state-run news agency Xinhua already hinted at.
 

Iran is one of the main locations where the continental transit routes for 
China's One Belt, One Road initiative converge

 "China-Iran relations are facing important opportunities as interactions 
between Iran and the international community have grown markedly since the 
sealing of a comprehensive deal on the Iranian nuclear issue in 2015. The 
Chinese side will work with Iran to turn Xi's visit into a milestone in the 
development of bilateral ties."

 China expert Meidan explains that the timing of Xi's visit - following the 
lifting of international sanctions - is indeed fortunate, and that Xi will come 
with a big business delegation as companies hope to gain or expand market share 
in Iran.

 In this context, Rajiv Biswas, Asia-Pacific Chief Economist at the analytics 
firm IHS, points out that "if there is a strong Iranian economic recovery now 
that sanctions have been lifted, this could create a fast-growing market for 
Chinese manufactures in a wide range of sectors, such as automobiles, power 
infrastructure as well as consumer goods."

Iran and OBOR

 Iran's importance also stems from its key position on China's One Belt, One 
Road (OBOR) initiative, given that it is one of the main locations where the 
continental transit routes and the maritime routes converge.

 In fact, Iran is among a handful of countries in the OBOR scheme - a major 
avenue through which China is seeking to diversify its energy supplies - and 
one of the few countries in the region where, according to analyst Small, 
Chinese military and intelligence services have a relationship that isn't 
"overshadowed by their counterparts' ties with the United States."

 As a result, infrastructure projects and Chinese investment will be a major 
focus during Xi's visit. And one of the things to watch will be how big a 
package Beijing will be able to announce with Iran, which should, in theory, be 
one of the countries where Beijing is able to step in on a very large scale 
with new investments.

 This is why analysts reckon there will probably be more concrete 
"deliverables" from Xi's visit to Tehran than from his stop in Riyadh. Many are 
keen to see whether an agreement is reached on the development of a high-speed 
rail link between Urumqi in China and Iran's capital city of Tehran. But as 
analyst Small points out, Iran also knows that it will have other suitors in 
the coming period and doesn't want to cast its lot in too far with China.
 

Many are keen to see whether a deal is reached on the development of a 
high-speed rail link between Urumqi and Tehran

 In this context, Xi's balancing act will involve not upsetting Saudi Arabia 
while he seeks to deepen ties with Iran. During his visit to Riyadh, Xi is set 
to hold talks with the Saudi King to discuss lifting bilateral ties to a 
comprehensive strategic partnership. Xi will also hold separate meetings with 
the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and the Organization of the Islamic 
Cooperation (OIC). The two sides will exchange views on promoting China's 
cooperation with the GCC and Islamic nations, according to Xinhua.

 Riyadh plays a key role in China's energy security strategy as a source of 
oil supply, with Chinese imports of Saudi crude averaging around one million 
barrels per day during the first 11 months of 2015. "With Saudi Arabia being 
the largest global supplier of oil to China, the long-term bilateral 
relationship remains very important to China's long-term energy security," said 
economist Biswas.

 As for Egypt, the country is one of the crucial focal points of Chinese 
diplomacy in the Arab world. With the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations, 
Xi's visit to Cairo will also be a celebratory one. And given that Cairo is 
also notably enthusiastic about OBOR, experts believe some announcements will 
be made in this regard.
 

China is worried about radicalization of the Muslim Uighur people who live in 
the far western region of Xinjiang

It is therefore economic gains which will be the chief outcome of the trip, as 
analyst Zhiqun Zhu stressed. "Having friendly relations with countries in the 
Middle East is crucial for the success of OBOR. So cooperation will be the main 
theme of Xi's visit."

Security concerns

 Last but not least, the ongoing crisis in Syria and China's counter-terrorism 
efforts are two issues which are also likely to feature high on Xi's Middle 
East agenda. China is worried about radicalization of the Muslim Uighur people 
who live in China's far western region of Xinjiang, and Beijing is looking to 
work more closely with the countries that have influence over the situation on 
the ground.

 "While tacitly supporting the military strikes on 'Islamic State,' China 
believes that progress there will require a political settlement in Syria, and 
will be encouraging the Saudis and Iranians to help facilitate that," said 
Small.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>