<ID>20081023-298
<DATE>20081023<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/europe-presses-china-to-help-west-tackle-financial-crisis/a-3734490
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Europe Presses China to Help West Tackle Financial Crisis
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Ahead of a two-day EU-Asia summit in Beijing, the European Union said Thursday China had to play its part in helping to resolve the current global economic crisis.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso on Thursday, Oct. 23, said 
China should have more say in international financial institutions, but also 
urged Beijing to play its part in helping to resolve the global financial 
crisis.

"We need a coordinated global response to reform the global financial system. 
We are living in unprecedented times, and we need unprecedented levels of 
global coordination," Barroso told reporters in Beijing.

"I very much hope that China gives an important contribution to the solution 
of this financial crisis. It's a great opportunity for China to show a sense of 
responsibility," he said. "It's very simple: we sink together or we swim 
together."

"We need Asia on board"

Barroso's comments came ahead of a two-day summit in Beijing of the 27 EU 
member states and 16 Asian countries covering the global downturn, climate 
change and international security.

Chinese investors too are an anxious lot nowadays

Outlining the "unprecedented" challenges facing the global economy, under 
threat of a looming worldwide recession, Barroso said: "We need Asia to be on 
board, and more particularly countries like China, India (and) Japan."

French President Nicolas Sarkozy, whose country currently holds the rotating 
presidency of the European Union, has already said he would use the ASEM summit 
to seek Asian backing for his bid to rebuild the world's financial system.

European governments have already committed more than two trillion dollars to 
help bail out struggling banks and shore up plummeting stock markets in largely 
coordinated actions.

Unlike in Europe, Asian banks have not responded to the crisis with 
coordinated action, but rather have focused on cutting interest rates, 
guaranteeing bank deposits and injecting money into credit markets.

"The present gathering could not be more timely. We face challenges which 
don't respect any borders," Barroso said. "No one in Europe or Asia can 
seriously pretend to be immune. We are living in unprecedented times, and we 
need unprecedented levels of global coordination."

Barroso says China could enjoy greater influence

Barroso also hinted that in return Beijing could be given greater clout on the 
world financial stage.

China this year won a modest increase in its voting power at the International 
Monetary Fund but argues that it is still not being given adequate leverage as 
the world's fourth-largest economy and the one that is growing fastest.

Sarkozy, right, and Barroso want China to step up to the plate on financial 
reforms

"We think China could and should have a greater voice in international 
financial institutions," Barroso said in a speech at a school for civil 
servants.

China is among the Group of 20 industrial and emerging nations that US 
President George W. Bush invited to a finance summit in Washington on Nov. 15.

More concrete internationally coordinated action is expected to come out of 
the Washington conference that Friday and Saturday's Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) 
in Beijing.

Merkel affirms economic ties to China 

Speaking to reporters in Beijing after meeting Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao, 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Thursday that "cooperation with China 
is of utmost importance" for Germany.

"It is important to bring China into a new financial system," she said, adding 
that China was already making efforts.

"With China's strong economic growth, China by itself is already making a 
contribution," Merkel said.

Economic issues dominate Merkel's visit to China

In a speech ahead of his talks with Merkel, Wen said cooperation with Germany 
was "extremely important" and that China "counts on investment from Germany."

German officials said the fact that Merkel was one of the few foreign leaders 
making a formal state visit to China for the ASEM summit showed the importance 
of ties between the two nations.

Chancellor defends jailed Chinese activist

Merkel, who was scheduled to meet President Hu Jintao Friday, said she raised 
human rights issues, including the situation of China's Tibetan and Uighur 
minorities, during her talks, adding that Germany wanted to continue dialogue 
with China on human rights.

She welcomed Thursday's award of the EU's Sakharov Prize for human rights to 
recently jailed Chinese dissident Hu Jia.

"The German government has always called for the release of Hu Jia and will 
continue to do so," she said, adding that she didn't expect the issue to cast a 
cloud over the ASEM summit.

The EU's human rights award for Hu Jia has irked the Chinese government

China expressed anger at the decision to award the prize to Hu, 35, who was 
imprisoned for three-and-a-half years in April on subversion charges.

"This is gross interference in China's domestic affairs," Chinese Foreign 
Ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao said.

But experts say the incident is unlikely to seriously mar the summit or strain 
ties between China and the EU.

"The fact is, in spite of all the political irritation and debates in the last 
few months about the Dalai Lama and the Olympics, the significance of bilateral 
economic relations between Germany and China or Europe and China was never 
denied by anyone," Eberhard Sandschneider, research director at the German 
Council on Foreign Relations told Deutsche Welle.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>