<ID>20140522-68
<DATE>20140522<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/opinion-chinas-iron-fist-comes-down-where-it-shouldnt/a-17654520
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Opinion: China's iron fist comes down where it shouldn't
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Over 30 people have died in China's northwestern Xinjiang province in a pointless attack. Beijing's "iron fist" politics have failed to put an end to such violence for a reason, says DW's Matthias von Hein.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 So far no one has claimed responsibility for the latest terrorist attack in 
the northwest of China. That was also the case with the most recent attack 
which the Chinese government blamed on Uighur separatists. However, should 
there be an organization behind the bloodbath that was carried out on May 22 at 
a market in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang province, it should know: nothing can 
justify such needless acts of brutality. The attack was not an act of heroism, 
but an act of mindless violence against innocent people. Our thoughts are with 
the victims - people who early this Thursday were simply going about their 
business, buying fruit, vegetables, meat or making a living selling items at 
the market.

 The terrorist attack shows that an increasing amount of repression alone will 
not be able to prevent such violent acts from occurring. In Urumqi, as in other 
Turkic-majority cities in the region, there is such a heavy security presence 
that an increase seems hardly possible. Activities carried out by secret 
services could also hardly be more extensive than now.

Under suspicion

 In 2009 Uighurs started attacking Han Chinese in Xinjiang after the death of 
two migrant Uighur workers in southern China. Under a stifling blanket of 
"ethnic harmony" - as ordered by China's Communist Party - disquiet slowly 
sweltered and eventually led to an outbreak of violence. Since then, Beijing 
has generally been suspicious of China's Uighur population.

DW recommends

Explosions at market in restive Xinjiang capital claim lives

Blasts in China’s restive Xinjiang region have claimed many lives, according 
to Chinese state media. The attack was carried out in Xinjiang’s capital city, 
Urumqi. (22.05.2014)
 

Chinese courts jail dozens of Uighurs over terror charges

Courts in the Chinese region of Xinjiang have jailed 39 people after a special 
operation to counter Uighur separatist terrorism, say judicial sources. The 
offences included the spread of "terrorism audios and videos." (21.05.2014)
 

Tiananmen Square: A dangerous memory

As the 25th anniversary of the crackdown on student-led protests in Tiananmen 
Square crackdown approaches, Chinese authorities have stepped up efforts to 
silence dissent by detaining lawyers, activists and journalists. (19.05.2014)
  
Deadly attack at Chinese railway station in Xinjiang

An explosion followed by an attack by armed assailants has occurred at a train 
station in China’s restive Xinjiang region. The incident coincided with a visit 
to the western province by Chinese President Xi Jinping. (01.05.2014)
 

The violence resulted in the death of 200 people. For every step Uighurs try 
to take towards their interests, China's Communist Party sees the danger of 
separatism or Islamism. Moderates – people who aim to promote the exchange 
between the Han Chinese and Uighurs – are silenced. What is happening now is 
what a leading mind of the Central Institute for Nationalities (Minzu 
University) lamented about Tibet: Beijing's iron fist policies are upsetting 
people who are not per se against Chinese rule.

 Those in Beijing are wondering why the Uighurs are not happy about the 
economic development of their region and don't become ardent supporters of the 
Communist Party. What officials seem to forget, however, is that it is mostly 
migrant Han Chinese who are profiting from these developments. The local 
Uighurs, on the other hand, are clearly disadvantaged.

 They don't really have any say in economic or political affairs or in the 
region's administration. And party cadres don't understand that preserving a 
cultural identity is about more than just folklore; while Uighurs are 
encouraged to greet tourists or make TV appearances in bright traditional 
costumes, singing and dancing to traditional songs, vast parts of the old town 
of Kashgar are being torn down without any say from the people living there. 
And the fact that no public servant is allowed to wear a beard that has any 
religious significance reinforces the feeling that they are seen as foreigners 
in their own lands.

Act of desperation?

 It has happened before in China that individual perpetrators have blown off 
steam by running amok. A day before the attack in Urumqi, a man in the central 
province of Henan killed seven people with a knife. A number of attacks have 
been carried out at schools and kindergartens.

 Beijing, of course, will investigate the attack in Urumqi. But it would do 
well to not blame an entire population for something that might possibly have 
been carried out by someone acting alone. And when it comes to their "iron 
fist" politics: would a good doctor keep increasing doses of a certain medicine 
that doesn't work, but has a long list of harmful side effects?

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>