<ID>20140926-260
<DATE>20140926<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/ai-australia-cambodia-refugee-deal-in-violation-of-international-law/a-17958007
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
AI: Australia-Cambodia refugee deal 'in violation of international law'
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Despite human rights concerns, a deal has been signed that will see refugees who sought asylum in Australia resettled in Cambodia instead; a move regarded by AI's Rupert Abbott as violating human rights obligations.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 The deal was signed by Australian Immigration Minister Scott Morrison and 
Cambodian Interior Minister Sar Kheng on Friday, September 26, to resettle an 
unspecified number of refugees currently held at an Australian-run detention 
camp on the tiny Pacific island nation of Nauru. Most of the detainees arrived 
by boat from the Middle East and South Asia.

 Under the deal, Australia will pay Cambodia 35 million USD over four years, 
plus carry the costs of resettlement; a move by Australia's conservative 
government to deter asylum seekers from reaching the country. Australia's 
conservative government has been facing growing international scrutiny over its 
policy of turning back boats carrying potential refugees.

 Rupert Abbott, Amnesty International's (AI) Deputy Asia Pacific Director, 
says in a DW interview that the relocation of refugees by Australia to Nauru 
and then on to Cambodia is a blatant violation of international law as it puts 
the lives of asylum seekers at risk for the sake of short-term political 
interests.
 

Abbott: 'We are calling for the Cambodian and Australian governments to cancel 
this poorly considered agreement'

DW: Why is Australia's asylum seeker resettlement deal with Cambodia so 
controversial?

 Rupert Abbott: The deal puts the short-term political interests of the 
Australian government ahead of the protection of people seeking protection from 
persecution in their home countries. It's a new low in Australia's already 
inhumane and deplorable treatment of asylum seekers and refugees.

 The relocation of refugees is a blatant violation of international law, 
particularly the Refugee Convention, which obliges Australia to process and 
host refugees who arrive in its territory or come within its effective control, 
for example if they are intercepted at sea by Australia.

 Australia has the capacity to take in these refugees, while on the other hand 
there are significant concerns about Cambodia's capacity to provide the legal 
protections, support and services that refugees need to live a safe, stable 
life, particularly given the country's own troubling track record on human 
rights.

Why is Cambodia regarded as an unsafe third country for refugees?

 Cambodia has a chequered record in protecting and supporting refugees. In 
December 2009, it received almost universal condemnation when it forcibly 
returned a group of 20 ethnic Uighur asylum seekers, including a pregnant woman 
and two children, to China. Cambodia's existing population of 70 refugees has 
limited rights and support services.

 The agreement with Australia also comes at a troubling time for human rights 
in Cambodia, a situation that Australia itself has criticized. Since a violent 
crackdown by security forces on striking workers and activists in January this 
year saw at least four people killed, scores injured and one boy left 
apparently disappeared, the rights to freedom of expression and peaceful 
assembly have been increasingly ignored. Peaceful assemblies by workers, land 
activists, human rights defenders and opposition party supporters are regularly 
broken up or denied altogether.

Why did Phnom Penh agree to sign the controversial deal?

DW recommends

Australia-Cambodia refugee resettlement deal slammed by rights groups

Australia and Cambodia signed a $35 million deal that will see an unknown 
number of refugees currently housed in Australia's offshore detention centers 
resettled in the impoverished Southeast Asian nation. (26.09.2014)
 

Refugee Council calls on Canberra to release 'all children from detention'

The Australian government has defended its continued detention of asylum 
seeker children in camps, a policy which Refugee Council CEO Paul Power says in 
a DW interview 'unquestionably' breaches children's rights. (22.08.2014)
 

No place to go for asylum seekers in Australia

Long before Sri Lankan asylum seekers reach their destination, Australian navy 
boats stop them, refuse their asylum requests, and send them back home. But 
there is growing resistance against this policy. (12.07.2014)
 

Asylum seekers in Australia raise their voices

Australia's treatment of asylum seekers, including its policy of turning back 
boats at sea, is under scrutiny. Those who do reach Australia face new 
obstacles, but a unique choir is helping them make their voices heard. 
(11.07.2014)
 

Under the memorandum of understanding, the Australian government will cover 
all costs related to the relocation of refugees to Cambodia. In addition, 
Australia's aid to Cambodia will apparently increase by 40 million AUD (35 
million USD) over four years. There is a clear financial incentive for 
Cambodia. For the Australian government, it is an opportunity to further deter 
refugees from seeking asylum in Australia.

Why do you claim there is a lack of transparency over the terms of the 
agreement?

 No details of the terms of the deal were released until after it had been 
signed, and no consultation was carried out with civil society in either 
country, independent human rights organizations, affected communities or the 
people of Cambodia or Australia.

 As far as Amnesty International is aware, the UN High Commissioner for 
Refugees, though referred to in the agreement, was not consulted on the deal - 
indeed, it has publicly condemned it. This lack of transparency is unacceptable 
when dealing with the human rights and lives of men, women and children.

How would the deal make Cambodia complicit in what you regard as "Australia's 
human rights breaches and seriously flawed offshore processing system"?

 The relocation of refugees by Australia to Nauru and then on to Cambodia, 
violates the Refugee Convention, which obliges Australia to process and host 
refugees who arrive in its territory. The offshore processing system, in which 
Cambodia is set to participate, has seen asylum seekers' human rights routinely 
violated. For example, Amnesty International's research has revealed that 
conditions for asylum seekers at the Australian-run detention center on Papua 
New Guinea's Manus Island were harsh, humiliating and designed to pressure 
asylum seekers to return to the countries they had fled.

Who will be the people taken to Cambodia and what will await them there?

 The agreement states that a small number of refugees will be relocated from 
Nauru to Cambodia on a trial basis, with an unspecified number being 
transferred later depending on Cambodia's capacity to support them. It is not 
clear what life will be like for these refugees in Cambodia. The 70 refugees 
already living in Cambodia are denied some freedoms, necessary documentation 
and pathways to citizenship.

 While the agreement says that a range of documentation, support and services 
will be provided to the relocated refugees, which to some extent match UN 
standards, the Australian Government has a poor record of ensuring that its 
practices meet the standards it puts on paper. Australia will be complicit in 
any human rights violations that the refugees relocated to Cambodia may suffer.
 

Abbott: 'There is a clear financial incentive for Cambodia'

This not the first time Australia has made a controversial resettlement deal 
with a neighboring country. What are you calling for?

 We are calling for the Cambodian and Australian governments to cancel this 
poorly considered agreement, and for Australia to process and offer protection 
to all refugees who seek protection in its territory or who fall under its 
effective control, for example those whose boats are intercepted at sea by 
Australia.

 It's crucial that Australia, Nauru and Papua New Guinea end the offshore 
detention of asylum seekers - a harsh, humiliating policy practiced by no other 
governments in the world. The Australian government should instead work with 
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, other governments in the 
Asia-Pacific region and civil society groups to develop a regional solution 
which genuinely protects the rights of asylum seekers and refugees, in line 
with international human rights and refugee law.

Rupert Abbott is Amnesty International's Deputy Asia Pacific Director.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>