<ID>20151015-135
<DATE>20151015<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/chinas-xi-to-embark-on-visually-impressive-uk-trip/a-18785002
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China's Xi to embark on 'visually impressive' UK trip
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
As Chinese President Xi Jinping makes his first state visit to Britain next week, Professor Steve Tsang tells DW the most important aspect about the trip is the visual impact it will make back in China.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

DW: The UK will be the only destination of Chinese President Xi Jinping's 
upcoming trip to Europe from October 20 to 23. Why is this trip so important to 
China?

 This upcoming state visit will be an occasion for the host nation to roll out 
the red carpet and make sure that everything goes right. For President Xi, the 
visit is about giving the impression back in China that he is achieving his 
objective of promoting the "China dream."
 

'The state visit will be an occasion for the host nation to roll out the red 
carpet,' says Professor Tsang

In your opinion, what topics will dominate the agenda?

 For President Xi, the single most important thing is the visual impact the 
visit is likely to make back in China. And you cannot get a more visually 
impressive state visit than being received by the British Queen Elizabeth II.

 Moreover, a state visit is not an occasion when you expect serious 
negotiations on any subject. That said, the UK government will be making joint 
announcements with China in terms of a few big projects that have already been 
agreed.

Xi's upcoming visit follows a trip to China by UK Chancellor George Osborne 
last month, during which he said Britain should be China's "best partner in the 
West." However, he was low-key in terms of adressing human rights issues. Is 
this a new way of dealing with China?

 No, it is not. As finance minister, Osborne has an exceptionally strong 
influence over UK-China relations. When finance ministers deal with these 
issues, they do it in a very peculiar way that does not fall in line with 
normal foreign policies even in a country such as the UK.

DW recommends

Britain courts Chinese investors for high-speed rail line

UK Foreign Minister George Osborne has opened bidding on contracts to build a 
high-speed rail line connecting London and the north. Osborne is aiming to draw 
in Asian investors during a trip to China. (24.09.2015)
 

UK pledges billions for nuclear plant

The British Chancellor has announced billions in government backing for the 
controversial Hinkley Point nuclear station. The announcement came during a 
trip to China, during which he sought to court Asian investors. (21.09.2015)
  
Why Europe defies the US to join a China-led bank

Despite US pressure to stay out, Europe's four-largest economies, Germany, 
France, Britain and Italy, are set to join a China-led regional bank, seen as a 
potential rival to the US-based World Bank. But why? DW examines. (18.03.2015)
 

The UK was among the first countries to join the China-led Asian 
Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), despite strong objection from 
Washington. Moreover, London's reactions to the South China Sea dispute and 
cyber-espionage claims have also been relatively weak. How different the UK's 
China policy from that of the US?

 I don't think the UK's China policies are very different from those of the 
United States. President Barack Obama has gone out of his way to try to 
accommodate China. Over the past 20 years or so, you cannot find any US 
president who has been more accommodating to China than Obama.

 You can say the same about British PM David Cameron. However, the UK has gone 
much further than the US for two reasons: The United States is an Asia-Pacific 
power whose strategic interests compete with those of China. But the United 
Kingdom has no regional conflicts of interest with China.

 The second important factor is the way George Osborne is seeking to shape 
UK-China ties. He seems to think that by going out of his way to accommodate 
the Chinese authorities he will win the friendship of the Chinese government, 
which will then improve bilateral relations and put his country in a better 
position when dealing with China as compared to other western nations.

At the same time, there are growing concerns the UK government has thus far 
failed to properly address human rights abuses in China. During Chancellor 
Osborne's recent visit to China's restive region of Xinjiang, he was criticized 
for failing to raise such issues. What are the implications of this approach?
 

'The Chinese know that London is willing to pay a higher price under the 
influence of Chancellor Osborne,' says Tsang

I don't think that what Osborne did necessarily received widespread support in 
the UK. While Xi's upcoming visit may be seen as a positive response to 
Osborne's China policy, in the long run, such an approach will not do the UK 
any good given that it will only encourage the Chinese leadership to demand a 
higher price for cooperation. The Chinese know that London is willing to pay a 
higher price under the influence of Chancellor Osborne.

 This is not limited to, for instance, the UK getting more investments from 
China for the construction of nuclear power plants. It could also refer to 
things such as British ministers visiting places like Xinjiang, sending the 
wrong signals that their country does not care about human rights issues in 
China.

Steve Tsang is Professor of Contemporary Chinese Studies and a Senior Fellow 
of the China Policy Institute at the School of Contemporary Chinese Studies of 
the University of Nottingham.

The interview was conducted by Li Shitao.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>