<ID>20140714-170
<DATE>20140714<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/macaus-democracy-referendum-a-new-headache-for-beijing/a-17784932
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Macau's democracy referendum: 'A new headache for Beijing'
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Following in the footsteps of neighboring Honk Kong, activist groups in Macau are planning to hold their own pro-democracy referendum. But Beijing is likely to do what it can to prevent the vote, Rebecca Liao tells DW.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 In what could prove to be one of the biggest challenges to Chinese authority 
yet, three activist groups in Macau, a special administrative region of China 
and the world's biggest gambling hub, are planning to hold an unofficial 
referendum on electoral reform.

 The announcement came in the wake of a similar referendum in nearby Hong Kong 
where more than 10 percent of the city's population voted for the public to be 
able to nominate candidates for the territory's top position.

 The former Portuguese colony - returned to China in 1999 - has a legal and 
economic system separate from the mainland. But just as in nearby Hong Kong, 
Macau's chief executive is not chosen by universal suffrage, but by an 
electoral committee made up of 400, mostly pro-Beijing, residents.

 In their poll slated to run between August 24 and August 30 - just ahead of 
the election for chief executive on August 31 - the activist groups say they 
want to ask Macau's residents questions, including whether there should be 
universal suffrage for the 2019 chief executive elections and how confident 
voters are in the sole candidate Fernando Chui, who has been in the position 
since 2009.

 But the move has already been slammed by Beijing as "illegal." In a DW 
interview, Rebecca Liao, a corporate attorney and writer specialized in Chinese 
politics and culture, says that the Chinese authorities' ultimate fear is that 
a successful attempt by Hong Kong and Macau to politically distance themselves 
from Beijing would also embolden pro-democracy activists on the mainland.

DW: After Hong Kong, now the special administrative region of Macau is 
planning a referendum on democracy, is this a new headache for Beijing?

 Rebecca Liao: Absolutely. Historically, Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang have 
presented the greatest challenges to Beijing's political control.
 

Beijing's ultimate fear is that pro-democracy activists on the mainland will 
be emboldened, if Hong Kong and Macau succeed in securing greater democratic 
freedom, says Liao

While China has been aware since Hong Kong's handover in 1997 that the "one 
country, two systems" solution would come to a head one day since it satisfies 
neither the mainland's desire for complete reunification nor the former 
colony's insistence on its democratic way of life, it has not been prepared for 
Hong Kong's open protest in the last few years.

 As for Macau, the region's populace is generally apathetic about politics, 
and so its sudden mobilization comes as an even greater shock. Beijing has 
responded with harsh words, from editorials in its prominent newspapers to a 
white paper warning Hong Kong to tread lightly in defense of its autonomy. It 
is telling, however, that the only concrete action taken so far against theHong 
Kong referendum 

 has been thearrest of five organizers 

 of a sit-in a few days after.

 China is concerned and alarmed at the open rebellion, but it has stayed its 
hand so far. Most likely, it recognizes escalation is not wise at this point, 
nor necessary. The economies of Hong Kong and Macau are too dependent on 
business from the mainland.

What would the Macau referendum symbolize?

 The Macau and Hong Kong referenda are motivated by completely different 
concerns. Hong Kong sees mainland China encroaching on its way of life and 
reneging on the promises of democracy made during the handover. The Macanese, 
on the other hand, are angry about increasing income inequality and corruption.

DW recommends

AI: HK mass arrests send 'disturbing signal for future protests'

Hong Kong police arrested over 500 protesters who staged a sit-in after a 
pro-democracy rally, described as the city's largest in years. In a DW 
interview, AI's Mabel Au slams the police action as hasty and unnecessary. 
(02.07.2014)
 

Hong Kong's pro-democracy movement gains momentum

Waving colonial-era flags, tens of thousands of pro-democracy protesters have 
staged a massive rally in Hong Kong demanding full electoral freedom. But will 
this be enough for Beijing to back down? (01.07.2014)
 

Hong Kong rally sends 'clear message to Beijing'

Thousands of Hong Kongers have taken to the streets to show their support for 
democratic reform. Professor Joseph Cheng, who took part in the rally, tells DW 
the high turnout is proof of people's desire for democracy. (01.07.2014)
 

Hong Kong referendum reflects 'people want democracy'

Over 700,000 Hong Kongers have cast their ballots in an unofficial referendum 
on democratic reform which Beijing calls a farce. Analyst Joseph Cheng tells DW 
Beijing fears the vote may set a precedent for other regions. (23.06.2014)
 

 For them, it can still be said that democracy is a means to an end, not a 
sacred right. If their referendum focuses the government's attention on 
improving their living standards, they will probably be pretty satisfied.

What kind of people are behind these civic movements both in Hong Kong and 
Macau?

 Hong Kong's pro-democracy movements 

 are led by activists whose main goals are to promote the region's autonomy and 
push for greater democracy, rule of law and press freedoms. Political movements 
are relatively new in Macau, and so they are organized by more eclectic groups 
of civil society organizations.

How are Chinese authorities likely to react to a referendum in Macau?

 Chinese authorities, including Macau's government, have condemned the 
referendum as illegal and unconstitutional. It's likely that negotiations are 
beginning to happen behind the scenes between the local government and the 
organizers to prevent the referendum from taking place. Should the referendum 
go through, Beijing is likely to ignore the results and repeat its current 
rhetoric.

 This has been the strategy for dealing with unrest in Hong Kong, and it may 
be sufficient for this latest development in Macau. What Beijing must realize 
soon, however, is that its understanding of the situation is completely 
different from that of the Hong Konger or the Macanese.

 For mainland China, those living in the former colonies are Chinese and 
should be grateful to have been reunited with the People's Republic. This 
demand for self-governance and barely concealed nostalgia for colonial rule is 
absolutely mystifying.

 Hong Kong and Macau, on the other hand, do not see this as a matter of 
patriotism, but of trust. Unlike Taiwan, neither will ever deny that it is a 
part of China. However, certain agreements vis-a-vis autonomy have been made, 
and profound cultural and political differences should be respected.

How similar to and how different from Hong Kong is Macau, in terms of its 
legal system and political system?

 Both are afforded greater press and political freedoms than the mainland. 
Each has a committee of elites stacked with pro-Beijing conservatives that 
elect the chief executives. Importantly, however, Hong Kong's Basic Law 
explicitly calls for universal suffrage by 2017. Macau possesses no such legal 
right to the vote.
 

Tens of thousands turn out for pro-democracy protest in Hong Kong

Beijing was quick to slam the referendum as illegal. What is Beijing mainly 
concerned about?

 Beijing does not want to lose control of its special administrative regions. 
Political self-determination on the level demanded by the Hong Kong and Macau 
referenda will be interpreted by the mainland as a near-declaration of 
independence and an attack on China's sovereignty by foreign (i.e. Western) 
powers sympathetic to democratic movements and eager to contain the country's 
growing power.

 The ultimate fear is that if Hong Kong and Macau succeed in distancing 
themselves further from the mainland and securing greater democratic freedom, 
pro-democracy activists on the mainland will be emboldened as well.

Rebecca Liao is a corporate attorney and writer based in Silicon Valley, 
focusing on Chinese politics and culture.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>