<ID>20160912-86
<DATE>20160912<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/cold-war-foes-russia-and-pakistan-forge-closer-ties/a-19545856
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Cold War foes Russia and Pakistan forge closer ties
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Pakistan and Russia will hold their first-ever joint military exercises later this year, say media reports. Islamabad is looking for new alliances in the region as its ties with Washington are rapidly deteriorating.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Geo-strategic relations are rapidly changing in South Asia. Former Cold War 
rivals India and the US are bolstering their defense and trade ties amid 
growing concerns about China's assertiveness in the region, particularly in the 
disputed South China Sea. On the other side, Islamabad and Washington, which 
were allies against the former Soviet Union and collaborated in the 1980s 
Afghan War, are drifting away. Simultaneously, Islamabad and Moscow are 
reviving their ties, as the two Cold War-era foes are planning to hold their 
first-ever joint military drills later this year.

 Around 200 Russian and Pakistani troops will take part in the exercises, The 
Express Tribune newspaper quoted a senior Pakistani official as saying.

 Pakistan's Ambassador to Moscow Qazi Khalilullah told the newspaper that the 
joint drills would be called "Friendship-2016," however he did not divulge any 
further details.
 

Kerry admitted that the deteriorating ties between India and Pakistan were 
having a negative impact on South Asian security

 "This obviously indicates a desire on both sides to broaden defense and 
military-technical cooperation," Khalilullah told a Russian news agency last 
week.

 The move comes at a time when US lawmakers are pondering over imposing 
sanctions on Islamabad for its "lack of cooperation" in the war against 
Islamist extremists.

 The US Senate Foreign Relations Committee held a hearing on US-Pakistani 
relations on Sunday, September 11, in which the committee's chairman Senator 
Bob Corker criticized Islamabad's alleged support to the militants in 
Afghanistan.

Washington tilts towards New Delhi

 While the US-Pakistani ties worsen, Washington gets closer to Islamabad's 
archrival New Delhi. US Secretary of State John Kerry, who was on a trip to 
India last month, made it clear that the US wanted to see India in a more 
powerful role in the South Asian region. Not only is the US moving ahead on a 
nuclear deal with India, it is also aiming to increase the bilateral trade to 
around $500 billion (448 billion euros) annually.

 "I'm very, very confident that we will continue to strengthen what President 
Obama has called the defining partnership of the 21st century," Kerry said in 
New Delhi, adding that cooperation on trade and security had "room to be able 
to further grow."

 The US is also actively supporting New Delhi's bid for the Nuclear Suppliers 
Group (NSG), which has been opposed by India's archrivals China and Pakistan.

 "The US-India security agreements will have an impact on Pakistan. Islamabad 
is rightly worried. Why should Pakistan then work for the US interests in 
Afghanistan?" Talat A. Wazarat, an International Relations expert from Karachi, 
told DW.

DW recommends

Examining Saudi-Pakistani ties in changing geopolitics

Suffering setbacks in Yemen, Saudi Arabia seeks closer ties and increased 
military cooperation with East and South Asian countries. Analysts say Pakistan 
provides a stepping stone for Riyadh's "look east" policy. (30.08.2016)
 

China and Russia start joint war games

In spite of tense regional debate over the South China Sea, the two countries 
are set to conduct joint drills. Moscow and Beijing have enjoyed increasingly 
close military cooperation in recent years. (12.09.2016)
  
Obama vows longterm US engagement with Asia in Laos speech

US President Barack Obama has pledged enduring cooperation between the US and 
Asia in a speech in Laos. He also warned North Korea's government that its 
weapons tests would lead to increased isolation. (06.09.2016)
 

"The new strategy is aimed at containing China's influence, but Pakistan is 
also bearing the brunt. China, Iran and Russia should also take the US-India 
deals very seriously and do something about it," she added.

Pakistan concerned

 The changing geopolitics in South Asia has also prompted Pakistan to forge 
closer ties with its long-time ally China. Beijing is expanding trade and 
military cooperation with Islamabad keeping in view the New Delhi-Washington 
maneuvers.

 Last year, China announced an economic project in Pakistan worth $46 billion 
(41 billion euros). With the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Beijing 
aims to expand its influence in Pakistan and across Central and South Asia in 
order to counter US and Indian influences. The CPEC would link Pakistan's 
southern Gwadar port on the Arabian Sea to China's western Xinjiang region. It 
also includes plans to create road, rail and oil pipeline links to improve 
connectivity between China and the Middle East.

 The ties between Russia and India are still friendly. Moscow has remained New 
Delhi's largest arms supplier over the past three years. The two countries' 
relations have blossomed since Narendra Modi became India's prime minister two 
years ago.

 But Russia is skeptical about India's warming ties with the US and seeks to 
put pressure on New Delhi by reaching out to Islamabad. Over the last 15 
months, several high-ranking Pakistani military officials have travelled to 
Moscow to boost bilateral ties, which has resulted in the signing of a deal for 
the sale of four Russian Mi-35 attack helicopters to Islamabad.

 Both countries also agreed on a pipeline project intended to transfer 
liquefied natural gas (LNG) from Karachi to Lahore. It could assist in 
resolving the Islamic country's protracted energy crisis.

 "Improved ties with Russia augurs well for Pakistan," Shuakat Qadir, a 
retired Pakistani military official and defense analyst, told DW. "The US 
policies have forced Pakistan to look for alternatives. Islamabad is unhappy 
with the US-India partnership," he added.

 The analyst says that Pakistan has finally come out of the Cold War dynamics 
as it is not depending on one global power anymore. At the same time, Qadir 
said, the "closer ties with Beijing and Moscow do not mean that Pakistan should 
turn its back on Washington."

 "We should engage with all countries," Qadir underlined.
 

Beijing is expanding trade and military cooperation with Islamabad keeping in 
view the New Delhi-Washington maneuvers

South Asia bears the brunt

 The conflicting interests of the US, China and Russia in Asia and the new 
strategic formations are spiking tensions in the South Asian region. The 
Indian-Pakistani ties are at their worst with both neighboring countries 
accusing each other of sponsoring terrorism.

 Since July 8, the Indian part of Kashmir has been in a grip of violence. New 
Delhi has accused Islamabad of supporting separatist groups in the valley. 
Pakistan, in turn, has alleged that Indian intelligence agencies have been 
backing an insurgent movement in its western Balochistan province.

 Kerry acknowledged that the deteriorating ties between India and Pakistan 
were having a negative impact on the security situation in the region, 
particularly in Afghanistan, where American troops are stationed. But instead 
of engaging with Pakistani authorities, the top US diplomat chose to be tough 
with Islamabad.

 "It is clear that Pakistan has work to do in order to push harder against its 
indigenous groups that are engaged in extremist terrorist activities," Kerry 
said in an address to students in New Delhi. "They must work with us to help 
clear the sanctuaries of bad actors who are affecting not only relations 
between Pakistan and India but also our ability to achieve peace and stability 
in Afghanistan," he added.

 Analyst Shuakat Qadir said that Islamabad would take action against the 
militants on its own volition. "We are already fighting terrorists. The US 
needs to review its policies also," Qadir said.
 

Ties between Kabul and New Delhi have improved a lot in recent years

 Pakistan's military and civilian leaders, analysts say, still consider the 
Taliban an important strategic ally, who they think should be part of the 
Afghan government after the NATO pullout. Observers say that the Pakistani 
military hopes to regain the influence in Kabul it once enjoyed before the 
United States and its allies toppled the pro-Pakistan Taliban government in 
2001.

 "Kabul is friendlier towards New Delhi now, whereas Islamabad continues to 
back the Taliban. Pakistan wishes to change this scenario and turn Afghanistan 
into its political backyard once again," London-based journalist and researcher 
Farooq Sulehria told DW.

 Nonetheless, some experts blame the growing involvement of China, Russia and 
the US in the South Asian affairs for the worsening state of security in the 
region. They believe it could trigger new conflicts and plunge the region into 
a deeper turmoil.

Additional reporting by Sattar Khan, DW's Islamabad correspondent.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>