<ID>20160302-262
<DATE>20160302<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/russias-new-role-in-afghanistan/a-19087432
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Russia's new role in Afghanistan
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
More than two decades after the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, Moscow is once again seeking to play a major role in the country by boosting military and economic cooperation with Kabul. DW examines.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Russia and Afghanistan have become friends again, putting behind their past 
enmity and bitter memories from the decade-long Soviet occupation of the South 
Asian country. The two countries today share good relations, and they even 
signed a security agreement last year.

 Just recently, Moscow gave 10,000 Kalashnikov rifles and millions of rounds 
of ammunition to the Afghan government. And further Russian military and 
economic aid is expected to flow to Kabul.

 Although Russia hasn't engaged militarily in Afghanistan since the start of 
the US-led invasion of the country in 2001, Moscow has provided logistical 
support for the reconstruction of the war-torn nation. This cooperation was 
formally institutionalized by the NATO-Russia Council.

Increasing engagement

 However, after Russia's relations with the West soured following the Ukraine 
conflict, Moscow decided to become active and expand its role in Afghanistan, 
said Omar Nessar, the director of the Moscow-based Center for Contemporary 
Afghan Studies (CISA). "Russia has sought closer ties with the Afghan 
government in a bid to help shape the events on the ground," he told DW, 
pointing to Moscow's military aid and economic investment in the country.
  Watch video 01:51 
Share

Germany extends mission in Afghanistan

Send  
Facebook 

Twitter 

Google+ 

Whatsapp  Tumblr 

linkedin 

stumble 

Digg 

reddit 

Newsvine 


Permalink http://dw.com/p/1HPHI

Germany extends mission in Afghanistan

 Furthermore, Russia plans to support Afghanistan's housing sector, as 
indicated by Zamir Kabulov, a department chief at Russia's Foreign Ministry and 
President Vladimir Putin's special envoy to Afghanistan, during his meeting 
with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on February 29.

 Afghanistan, in turn, has welcomed economic support not only from Russia, but 
also China, as Western nations continue their drawdown from the impoverished 
nation.

 China is also playing a major role in the so far indirect peace talks held 
with the Taliban.

 While Russia officially favors peace talks with the Taliban, it remains 
skeptical about whether the negotiations could begin soon. Nevertheless, 
Kabulov called on the Taliban to take part in the talks. During his recent 
visit to Kabul, he insisted that only the Afghan government was empowered to 
lead the peace talks with the militants.

DW recommends

Disillusionment driving Afghan asylum seekers back home

A special plane from Germany carrying rejected Afghan asylum seekers has 
landed in Kabul. What prospects do these people now have in their home country? 
DW examines. (25.02.2016)
 

Afghan civilian casualties hit new high: UN

The United Nations says civilian casualties in Afghanistan's conflict have hit 
a record high for the seventh year running. Children made up a large proportion 
of the dead and wounded. (14.02.2016)
  
Child soldiers - What's their role in the Afghan conflict?

The recent killing of a 10-year-old boy has highlighted the issue of child 
soldiers in Afghanistan. Although it's illegal, government forces and 
insurgents have kept recruiting minors for years. DW examines. (13.02.2016)
 

Are US troops getting drawn into combat in Afghanistan?

The US is planning to send extra troops to Afghanistan's Helmand Province to 
assist the local security forces. But analyst Jason Campbell says the line 
between advising and getting involved in combat is becoming blurred. 
(10.02.2016)
 

 "Russia shares friendly relations with the Afghan government, but it has no 
confidence in the China and US-mediated peace talks with the Taliban," said 
Javid Ahmad, a South Asia expert at Yale University. "The Russians are more 
interested in a parallel diplomatic effort led by Moscow to promote their own 
interests." But experts say Russia has found a rather unusual partner in this 
attempt, in the form of the Taliban.

A double game?

 Russia's interests in Afghanistan "objectively coincide" with those of the 
Taliban, Kabulov told journalists in Moscow in January. He noted that the 
Russian government has been in contact with the Taliban to exchange information 
about the so-called Islamic State (IS) terrorist group, which has been seeking 
to increase its presence in the country.

 Yale analyst Ahmad says the Russians view IS as a bigger threat to their 
interests. "That's why they have embraced their former nemesis: the Taliban, as 
a hedge against the growing influence of IS in the neighborhood," he pointed 
out.

 A September 2015 UN report said IS fighters were operating in 25 of 
Afghanistan's 34 provinces. Many of these militants are former Taliban members. 
It is estimated that there are currently some 3,000 IS fighters in the country.

 "This is a calculated, and at the same time, dangerous approach, which not 
only has far-reaching consequences for the security of Afghanistan, but could 
also lead to a proxy war," said Ahmad. However, he cautioned, any material 
support provided to the Taliban also means that UN sanctions have been violated.

 But CISA analyst Nessar views this as an exaggeration. "All regional and 
world powers have established contact with the Taliban," said the expert. 
"Whether it is Pakistan, Japan, China or Iran, all countries have the right to 
contact the Taliban. Why shouldn't this also apply to Russia?"

 According to Nessar, it is Western and Afghan media that often distort and 
misinterpret Kabulov's statements. "The goal is to undermine the trust between 
these two countries and prevent renewed Russian engagement in Afghanistan," 
said Nessar, pointing out that Russia still faces strong enemies in Afghanistan.

Amu Darya instead of Wolga

 Nonetheless, Russia fears that terrorist groups could infiltrate Central 
Asia. According to Afghan security officials, hundreds of terrorists from Arab 
nations, along with Chechens, Uighurs, Uzbeks, Tajiks and Pakistanis from the 
bordering area of North Waziristan have come through the bordering area of 
North Waziristan to Afghanistan to fight.
  Watch video 02:32 
Share

How Afghans are fleeing their country

Send  
Facebook 

Twitter 

Google+ 

Whatsapp  Tumblr 

linkedin 

stumble 

Digg 

reddit 

Newsvine 


Permalink http://dw.com/p/1HOuq

How Afghans are fleeing their country

 As a result, over the past year northern Afghanistan has become the scene of 
bloody battles. The provincial capital of Kunduz, located some 70 kilometers 
from the Tajik border, fell into Taliban hands for a few days. Rumors have been 
circulating that it was Russia's material support of the Taliban which enabled 
the fall of city in the first place.

 Russia is also concerned about having that many terrorist fighters so close 
to its borders. To prevent them from entering, Moscow has decided to support 
and train the Tajik Army.

 "We'd rather fight the Islamists on the Amu Darya than on the Volga," Kabulov 
told Russian news agency Interfax early this year. Perhaps this could become 
the slogan of the renewed Russian-Afghan friendship.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>