<ID>20130201-180
<DATE>20130201<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/big-fish-still-elude-chinas-corruption-bloggers/a-16570597
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Big fish still elude China's corruption bloggers
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Citizen journalists in China have taken the leadership's overtures about fighting corruption as a challenge. But while low and middle-ranking officials have been caught out, scandal at the top level is still off-limits.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 It didn't take long for Lei Zhengfu to fall from grace. Only 66 hours after a 
video surfaced on the internet showing the 57-year-old local party chief from 
south west China having sex with an 18-year-old, Lei lost his job.

 Lei, a district-level party secretary in the city of Chongqing, had made sure 
that contacts of the young woman were given lucrative construction contracts 
and profited handsomely from it. The scandal was uncovered by investigative 
journalist Zhu Rhifeng, for whom the cadre's dismissal was a triumph.

 "The Internet in China is now the strongest weapon we have in the fight 
against corruption," said Zhu. "We have no democracy and no rule of law. Party 
officials are not subject to any kind of public control. That's why microblogs 
have an important role in the distribution of information."

 Lei was not the only person to lose his job thanks to Zhu reporting. Since 
the affair got out, ten other officials and managers of public corporations in 
Chongqing have also been dismissed.

 He has made the uncovering of corruption his vocation, despite receiving 
threats and even death threats. In spite of the pressure, the 44-year-old feels 
he is going about his work with new optimism and vigor. The words of new party 
leader Xi Jinping upon his entry to office give some grounds for hope, on the 
surface at least.
 

Lucrative construction contracts were offered to Lei's contacts

"The problems among party members and officials - corruption and taking bribes 
and undue emphasis on formalities and bureaucracy - all of that must be fought 
against with the utmost effort," Xi said. "The whole party must be on guard."

String of scandals

 Bloggers and citizen journalists such as Zhu have interpreted these words as 
a challenge. Since this speech, barely a week has gone by in which a party 
official somewhere in the country has not fallen from power through Internet 
revelations. In one case, a village official in Shanxi province was found to 
have four wives and ten children, in a country where the one-child policy still 
applies. Another was the security chief of a small town in Xinjiang province 
who had two mistresses - who happen to be sisters - for whom he had arranged 
jobs.

 In Yunnan, meanwhile, one party cadre was exposed over his fondness for opium 
and expensive overseas properties. Then, there was the story of the boss of a 
provincial bank who used illegal means to buy houses and apartments.

 "The officials have started to hate the Internet and the officials in 
Xinjiang have even said that not everyone should have access to it, that the 
web should be shut down," Zhu said.
 

Xi stressed that the utmost effort must be made to fight corruption

The various online revelations have badly damaged the party's image - in 
particular where middle and lower ranking officials are concerned.

No trouble at the top

 In a new study, Beijing People's University professor Tang Jun has 
highlighted a "crisis" in public life, citing, among other cases, the Lei 
affair. The authorities had not done enough to repair the damage done, claimed 
Tang.

 Despite his success in exposing the Lei affair, Zhu is under no illusions. 
Citizen journalists like him have so far only been able to expose the 
relatively minor officials.

 The "bigger fish" remain off-limits, as became apparent through the New York 
Times revelations last year about the personal wealth of Prime Minister Wen 
Jiabao. That newspaper's website was blocked in China and one of its 
correspondents even had to leave the country.

 In spite of this, Zhu will not give up. "A few days ago, Xi Jinping said that 
power should be restricted by a 'cage of regulations.' He was speaking about of 
corruption, and acting against both 'tigers' and 'flies.' He spoke a lot. We 
have heard the thunder, now it's time for the rain."

 There's good reason to be skeptical. Xi's predecessor Hu Jintao also spoke 
about the fight against corruption when he took office. As too did his 
predecessor Jiang Zemin.

 So far, no one has dared to implement necessary conditions, for example, 
transparency, curbs on power, an independent judicial system and a free press, 
to prevent corruption.

Signs of hesitation

 And there are signs that the government is already rowing back on its 
promises. The uncovering of scandals must be regulated, according the "Global 
Times" commentary, belonging to the party newspaper People's Daily.
 

Some party officials have called for the internet to be unplugged

For Zhu, the argument that such action is necessary to avoid undue intrusion 
is a smokescreen. "With the argument that they have to protect people's 
privacy, they are trying to curtail people's freedom to share information on 
the Internet," he said. "In reality it's not about protecting people's privacy 
but rather the corrupt officials."

 Zhu himself was summonsed by police at the start of the week, allegedly for 
distributing "incriminating videos" that could cost more heads to roll. He 
refused, preferring to protect his informants and evidence. However, it served 
as a reminder that he has made his fair share of enemies in the corridors of 
power.

 Nonetheless, Zhu says he has further material that might see the rug pulled 
from beneath corrupt officials. Once the facts have been checked, he said, they 
will be made public.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>