<ID>20140606-175
<DATE>20140606<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/sangay-tibetans-seek-genuine-autonomy-not-independence/a-17690535
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Sangay: 'Tibetans seek genuine autonomy, not independence'
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The leader of Tibet's exiled government, Lobsang Sangay, spoke with DW about his new campaign aimed at resuming long-stalled talks with Beijing and softening China's handling of his homeland.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 The prime minister of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) has reaffirmed 
his commitment to the "Middle Way" approach of engaging the Chinese government 
through dialogue to achieve what his government calls "genuine autonomy" for 
Tibetans within the country.

 Sangay's announcement comes as the CTA launches a global publicity campaign 
to persuade world governments to put pressure on China to restart dialogue with 
exiled Tibetans. Formal talks between the Chinese government and the CTA 
reached a stalemate in 2010 following leadership changes in Beijing and a 
crackdown in Tibet. China has ruled Tibet since 1950, and many Tibetans feel 
their intensely Buddhist culture is at risk of erosion by Beijing's political 
and economic domination.

 In a DW interview, Sangay says he hopes the Xi Jinping-led Chinese government 
will review its hard-line approach and accept dialogue as the only way to 
peacefully resolve the Tibet issue.

DW: Given that the mother of Chinese President Xi Jinping was a Buddhist and 
his father was on friendly terms with the Dalai Lama, have you seen any changes 
in the attitude of China's leaders toward national minorities in general and 
the Tibetans in particular?

 Lobsang Sangay: We have heard reports that discussions on minorities have 
been going on for some time. Recently, scholars have contributed with their 
views on minorities and Tibetans in general. But we have yet to see any changes 
in the attitude of the Chinese leaders and the ground reality of repressive 
policies in Tibet.
 

The Chinese government is putting pressure on different governments not to 
meet with the Dalai Lama, said Sangay

China's growing clout in the international arena is very much felt by the 
Tibetans in exile. For instance, fewer andfewer governments are willing to meet 
with the Dalai Lama. Is time playing in China's favor?

 The Chinese government is putting pressure on different governments not to 
meet with His Holiness the Dalai Lama, misinforming about the Central Tibetan 
Administration and its "Middle Way" approach.

 Yet on the people's level, interest in Tibet remains and it is important on 
our part to create more awareness and strengthen support from the international 
community. Time is not playing in support of China because even after 60 years 
of occupation, the third generation of Tibetans is in the streets protesting 
against the hard-line policies of the Chinese government, even though they are 
the beneficiaries of whatever Beijing claims to provide to Tibetans.

 Resentment and protests persist. The sense of unity and solidarity among 
Tibetans inside and outside has never been stronger in recent years. Given this 
foundation, the Tibetan struggle is here to stay.

DW recommends

WUC: China's Xinjiang policy 'backfiring'

A day after China's restive Xinjiang region suffered a major attack, Alim 
Seytoff of the Uighur World Congress tells DW the area is witnessing a violent 
response to China's 65-year-long "brutal repression" of Uighurs. (23.05.2014)
  
Opinion: China's iron fist comes down where it shouldn't

Over 30 people have died in China's northwestern Xinjiang province in a 
pointless attack. Beijing's "iron fist" politics have failed to put an end to 
such violence for a reason, says DW's Matthias von Hein. (22.05.2014)
 

China angry after Obama's meeting with Dalai Lama

United States President Barack Obama has invoked the ire of China after 
meeting with the Dalai Lama at the White House. Having warned the meeting would 
strain ties, China has now summoned a US diplomat. (21.02.2014)
 

India's Tibetan women assuming bigger roles

Tibetan women in exile are taking up leadership roles within their community, 
challenging patriarchal stereotypes. In India, many of these women are 
participating in workshops and trainings to hone their skills. (01.01.2014)
  
On Sunday (08.06.2014), China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi will meet with 
India's new prime minister, Narendra Modi. Could a thaw in Indo-Chinese ties 
potentially threaten the status of the Central Tibetan Administration, based in 
the Indian city of Dharamsala?

 No. India's policies over Tibet and its treatment of Tibetans have remained 
the same, regardless of who is in power. We believe and hope the government of 
the recently elected Prime Minister Narendra Modi will continue the same 
policies. I hope China's foreign minister will appreciate India's unity in 
diversity and democracy as the foundation that keeps multilingual, multiethnic 
India united as one country. We regard similar policies by the Chinese 
government towards Tibetan people as a win-win proposition.

What exactly do you expect from the Chinese government?

 We hope the Xi Jinping-led government will review its hard-line approach and 
introduce liberal policies towards Tibetans. I hope that President Xi Jinping 
will accept dialogue as the only way to resolve the Tibet issue peacefully.

To what extent are you willing to compromise with Beijing?

 That is exactly what the "Middle Way" approach is all about. We would like to 
see an end to the present repression in Tibet. If granted genuine autonomy 
within the framework of the Chinese constitution, we will not seek separation 
from China.

How has Chinese rule affected Tibet over the past decades?

 Over the past decades there has been ongoing political repression, social 
discrimination, economic marginalization, environmental destruction and 
cultural assimilation, particularly due to Chinese migration to Tibet which is 
fueling intense resentment among the Tibetan people.

How hopeful are you that China will begin a review of its Tibet policy?
 

Sangay: "The sense of unity and solidarity among Tibetans inside and outside 
has never been stronger"

Sooner or later, China should realize that the hard-line policies are not 
working. Some 130 self-immolations by Tibetans - which we discourage - should 
send a clear message to the Chinese government that it is time to enter into a 
dialogue between the envoys of His Holiness the Dalai Lama and the 
representatives of the Chinese government.

Are Chinese authorities following a similar hard line in Tibet as in Xinjiang?

 Yes. From occupation until the present day, the treatment of the Tibetan and 
Uighur people has been very similar. Sixty years of repression have not been 
working. It is time to give the "Middle Way" approach a chance, for the dignity 
of the Tibetan people, harmony within China and peace.

Lobsang Sangay is the elected prime minister of the India-based Central 
Tibetan Administration, also referred to as the Tibetan government-in-exile.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>