<ID>20150708-150
<DATE>20150708<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/why-china-is-alarmed-about-is-presence-in-afghanistan/a-18570097
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Why China is alarmed about IS presence in Afghanistan
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The leaders of China, Russia and other countries will discuss the threat the "Islamic State" group poses in Afghanistan at a Eurasian security summit. DW spoke to analyst Borhan Osman about Beijing's concerns.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Chinese President Xi Jinping, Russian President Vladimir Putin and other 
leaders will discuss about the security situation in Afghanistan and the 
increasing threat posed by "Islamic State" (IS) in Eurasia at this year's 
Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) to be held Russian city of Ufa on July 
9-10.

 "Due to the spillover effect of the Islamic State terrorist activities, 
Afghanistan now faces a grim security situation," Chinese vice foreign minister 
Cheng Guoping told reporters. SCO leaders "will certainly have in-depth 
discussions on the Afghan issue", he added. "And they will talk further about 
how to respond to the security situation there," Cheng was quoted as saying. 
China is worried about own separatist groups in the far western region of 
Xinjiang working with IS.

 Afghanistan has "observer" status in the SCO, which groups China, Russia, 
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. In a DW interview, Borhan 
Osman a Kabul-based analyst with the Afghanistan Analysts Network, explains 
Beijing is concerned because a palpable IS foothold in Afghanistan could be far 
more dangerous to Chinese interests than, say, the Taliban.
 

Osman: 'It is difficult to imagine a popular base of support for IS in 
Afghanistan'

DW: Chinese vice foreign minister Cheng Guoping recently said Afghanistan is 
facing a grim security situation due to the spillover effect of "Islamic State" 
terror activities. What is your take on this?

 Borhan Osman: The overall security situation in the South Asian country is 
certainly deteriorating, especially in many parts of northern Afghanistan. But 
that probably has nothing to do with the presence of IS in the region. 
Afghanistan's northern neighbors and China worry too much about a possible IS 
threat that makes them translate the security deterioration into an imminent IS 
threat.

Apart from financial fears, what are China's interests in fighting a possible 
IS threat in Afghanistan?

 China is possibly more worried about the East Turkistan Islamic Movement 
(ETIM) turning into a greater threat, and about more Uighur Muslims 
radicalizing and joining jihad-based separatism, than the IS threat to 
Afghanistan per se.

 China sees a volatile Afghanistan as an easy stage for the resurrection of 
ETIM, although there is no credible data about how effective and big this 
grouping is.

DW recommends

What to expect from the SCO, BRICS summits in Russia

Often portrayed as a challenge to a Western-led order, this year's 
simultaneous SCO and BRICS summits are set to reveal Chinese and Russian plans 
for closer political and economic engagement in Eurasia. DW examines. 
(06.07.2015)
 

'IS' poses new terror dimension, warns German agency

Europe is facing a "new dimension" of terror stemming from the "Islamic 
State"' footholds in Syria and Iraq, according to Germany's domestic 
intelligence agency. Its also pointed to far-right wing violence in Germany. 
(30.06.2015)
 

Opinion: The Taliban's muscle-flexing

By launching attacks on the Afghan parliament and the northern city of Kunduz, 
the Taliban want to demonstrate their strength, not just to the government but 
also to "Islamic State" (IS), says DW's Florian Weigand. (22.06.2015)
  
 Nevertheless, a palpable IS foothold in Afghanistan alarms China since the 
militant grouping could be a far more dangerous patron or partner for the 
Chinese militants than, say, the Taliban. This is why China might be more 
interested in contributing to efforts aimed at stopping the emergence of IS in 
Afghanistan in the first place.

The Taliban recently warned IS against waging a parallel insurgency in 
Afghanistan. Do you see a possibility of increasing clashes between the two 
groups?

 So far, there are no indications of massive IS-Taliban clashes in 
Afghanistan. The largest clashes which have taken place in recent weeks in 
Nangarhar, in eastern Afghanistan, have failed to mount a serious threat to the 
Taliban's control in these areas. IS has lost battles and terrain in most of 
the districts it initially contested. So, the prospect for IS to challenge the 
Taliban's hold remains weak.

Recently, former prime minister and leader of the insurgent group Hezb-e 
Islami, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, called upon his supporters to join IS. Which role 
does he play in this?

 Hekmatyar has talked about specific cases in which he recommended his 
supporters to back IS fighting the Taliban. There have been reports of 
militants in eastern Afghanistan with Hezb-e Islami background claiming to be 
IS fighters.

 But these fighters do not seem to have joined IS on Hekmatyar's orders. 
Hekmatyar's clout over active insurgents in Afghanistan appears to have 
remarkably shrunk in recent years. Therefore, his call on supporters to back IS 
in its fight against the Taliban will remain more of an angry statement by a 
desperate warlord who has always been striving to remain relevant.#

Do the Afghan people approve of the IS group?
 

China sees a volatile Afghanistan as an easy stage for the resurrection of the 
East Turkistan Islamic Movement, says Osman

It is difficult to imagine a popular base of support for IS in Afghanistan. So 
far, small groups have emerged here and there trying to carve a place for 
themselves in society. But their call for a caliphate does not resonate with 
local communities. There might be members of a limited number of young people 
either radicalized or at the risk of being radicalized into global jihadism.

 But, they mostly remain disconnected from local societies. In Nangarhar, IS 
fighters have published propaganda pictures of their interaction with local 
residents. Rather than showing a supportive population, the pictures show a 
terrified people.

Borhan Osman is a Kabul-based researcher and analyst with the Afghanistan 
Analysts Network.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>