 Shackled and hooded, the five - who had fled from the northern province of Xinjiang, China - have been put on a plane to return to China. There, Uyghur dissidents denounce, "torture and jail await them. Beijing continues its ferocious repression against us. " 
 Beijing (AsiaNews) - With the complicity of the Pakistani government, the Chinese regime has deported five ethnic Uyghur who had fled from China and had crossed the border into Pakistan. Among the five treated as terrorists, we are a woman and two children, the extradition was imposed after the riots in recent weeks that have taken place in the northern province of Xinjiang. The Pakistani authorities handcuffed the five on the morning of August 9 and, after being hooded, took them in the airport Benazir Bhutto international: here they were boarded on a China Southern Airline flight. Among the five a women, Manzokra Mamad, who was carrying the minor daughter and teenage son, was identified by some dissidents,. According to the World Uyghur Congress, the non-governmental organization based in Germany that monitors the situation of compatriots in Xinjiang, "extradition is illegal, cruel and shows hate towards minorities in Beijing. Islamabad, then, is even more so: they know what happens to the Uyghurs who are forcibly repatriated. They are tortured and thrown into jail for no reason. " On August 1, Chinese police shot in cold blood two Uyghurs suspected of being involved in the July 31 attack that caused the death of six people in a bar in Kashgar. The two - Memtieli Tiliwaldi (29) and Turson Hasan (34) - were killed in a cornfield and left there. Kashgar's government had put a bounty of 100 thousand yuan (about 10 thousand euros) for their capture. Before this last episode bloody episodes erupted in the city of Hotan and in the provincial capital, Urumqi. The ethnic Uyghur – Turkish speaking peoples of Islamic religion – have languished under the heel of the Chinese government since 1949 which has imposed a series of extreme religious and cultural restrictions on the minority. Several groups claim independence and demand the restoration of East Turkestan, but the majority of Uyghurs only want greater autonomy. 