<ID>20140327-170
<DATE>20140327<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-crisis-a-chance-for-sino-german-dialogue/a-17523230
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Ukraine crisis - A chance for Sino-German dialogue
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Chinese President Xi Jinping is set to visit Germany on March 28-29 as part of his 11-day Europe tour. But instead of economic issues, security is expected to be high on the agenda given recent developments in Ukraine.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Sino-German relations are mainly defined by economic ties. The annual 
bilateral trade stands at around 205 billion USD. That's equivalent to about a 
third of the total EU trade with China. The economic nature of this 
relationship is highlighted by the fact that Xi Jinping will be accompanied by 
a 200-strong business delegation in his first trip to Germany as Chinese 
president.

DW recommends

China, Russia and the Ukrainian divide

Sticking to its traditional policy of non-interference, China has adopted a 
cautious stance on the tug of war over Ukraine. Faced with pressing separatist 
threats and energy needs, Central Asia would be another matter. (25.03.2014)
  
Germany redefines its major export markets

The German government and domestic trade organizations have agreed on focusing 
export activities on six markets deemed most promising for German companies. 
The move came on the back of a global market analysis. (26.03.2014)
  
Chinese products top list of dangerous goods found across the EU

The European Commission has warned of a rising number of notifications 
relating to the import of consumer products registered as dangerous to 
consumers. It said most of the dangerous goods are coming from China. 
(25.03.2014)
 

Trade ties expose EU, US rift over Russia sanctions

As the US moves to impose sanctions on Russia over Crimea, the EU calls for 
more negotiations. The European Union and the United States have threatened 
Russia with punitive measures if Moscow does not reduce tensions in Ukraine. 
But some European countries are reluctant to impose sanctions due to close 
trade ties with Russia. (05.03.2014)
 

 And yet the focus of Xi's state visit will not be on business deals, but 
rather on global and security issues, according to Sebastian Heilmann, a China 
expert at the Berlin-based Merics think tank. "This is new to the Sino-German 
relations," he said.

 The recent events in Ukraine are the main reason for this change. China does 
not agree with Russia's annexation of Crimea. Beijing argues that the 
principles of territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal 
affairs of other states are at the core of its foreign policy. Furthermore, 
given the autonomy movements in Tibet, Xinjiang or Taiwan, the Chinese 
government rejects the idea of holding referendums.

More scope for cooperation 

 Considering the otherwise very close Sino-Russian ties, analysts do not 
expect Beijing to abandon Moscow and openly criticize Russia's actions. "But we 
do see signs of cracks in their relationship," political expert Heilmann told 
DW, adding that the recent development had widened the scope for German 
co-operation with China.

 Berlin wants Beijing to support the West's position on the Crimea issue and 
to have a moderating effect on Russia. The Chinese government had recently 
declared its intention to the National People's Congress that it wanted to take 
on more responsibility in global affairs and continue to adhere to 
international law.

 Analyst Heilmann sees great opportunities for Beijing in light of the current 
situation: "Behind the scenes, China has the opportunity to say that divisions 
within Eastern Europe and a shift from the current territorial boundaries are 
not in the interest of China. It can argue that stability is much more 
important and that the goal should be a joint development of the contested 
areas supported by the International Monetary Fund and protected by 
international law.

Strategic partnership 
 

Xi (l) is expected to hold talks with German Chancellor Merkel during his visit

Perhaps Germany is the right country to address these issues during Xi 
Jinping's upcoming state visit. Sino-German ties have become so close that they 
have been raised to the level of a strategic partnership.

 Delegations from both sides take part in several dialogue forums every year. 
Moreover, dozens of bilateral agreements are signed in intergovernmental 
consultations. Germany has an excellent reputation as a reliable partner in 
China where it is regarded as the "gate to Europe."

 During his visit, Xi will first be meeting German President Joachim Gauck. 
But since Xi Jingpin is also China's top politician, he is also set to engage 
in extensive talks with Chancellor Merkel. Xi is then expected to travel to 
North Rhine-Westphalia and meet with Vice-Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel on the 
second day of his trip.

Human rights

 Just a few days after Xi's visit, Berlin will be hosting the largest-ever 
exhibition by Chinese artist and political dissident Ai Weiwei. But, as Nora 
Sausmikat from the German foundation Asienhaus indicates, Ai is unlikely to be 
present at the event as his passport was confiscated in 2011 following a nearly 
three-month detention. The foundation therefore demands that Chancellor Merkel 
push Beijing for Ai's right to travel freely.
 

Berlin will be hosting the largest-ever exhibition by Chinese artist and 
political dissident Ai Weiwei

 Sausmikat also points out that - ever since Xi took over the reins as 
president and party chief - censorship in China has become stricter and 
authorities have been cracking down hard on civil rights activists. Sausmikat 
therefore urged the German chancellor to stand up for freedom of expression and 
opinion in the Asian country.

 China analyst Heilman believes it's possible that the Xi-led government will 
be willing to take a more lenient approach towards Ai. "This hard line was 
taken up by the previous administration. The current government has more room 
to maneuver, especially no court has convicted Ai of anything," he said.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>