<ID>20120702-177
<DATE>20120702<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/indigenous-peoples-threatened-by-resource-exploitation/a-16065981
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Indigenous peoples threatened by resource exploitation
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
A new report on minorities and indigenous people warns that the global 'intensification' in the exploitation of natural resources is leading to mounting conflicts for the world's 370 million indigenous people.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 The report for 2012 by the London-based human rights group, Minority Rights 
Group International (MRG), says indigenous peoples "in every region of the 
world" face the risk of being "driven from their land and natural resources."

 The land and resources are all "vital for their livelihoods, their culture 
and often their identity as a people," Vital Bambanze, chair of the UN Expert 
Mechanism on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, said in the report.
 

Coal mining projects have disturbed the lives of ethnic Mongolians



 From the Batwa of the Great Lakes region in Central Africa, and the Endorois 
and Ogiek in Kenya, to hill tribes in northern Thailand, Bedouin in the Middle 
East and Uighurs in China's Xinjiang province - all "struggle to maintain their 
cultural integrity against their respective governments' desire to put national 
development first," Bambanze said.

Unprecedented demand for resources in Asia 

 The report says the unprecedented demand for natural resources across Asia is 
"feeding ethnic conflict and displacement and is a severe threat to the lands, 
livelihoods and the way of life of minorities and indigenous people."

 Carl Soderbergh, an MRG spokesperson, warns the situation faced by indigenous 
groups is deteriorating world-wide.

 "In terms of the trends globally what has been happening over the last decade 
is that there's been an intensification of the exploitation of natural 
resources pushing into areas populated by minorities and indigenous peoples," 
Soderbergh told DW.
 

Many indigenous communities have their land confiscated



 In regions such as Latin America, the issues faced by communities centered on 
mining and logging, in North America on tar-sands mining, there were conflicts 
over wind farms and iron ore mining in the Arctic, while in Africa, indigenous 
communities faced the leasing of thousands of hectares of land for corporations 
or foreign governments.

 "All governments are chasing a dominant development paradigm n which today 
minorities and indigenous peoples don't really have a place and that is a 
problem," he said.

 In China, investment in mining has forced herders off traditional grazing 
lands and ancestral villages in regions such as Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous 
Region, as well as in Tibet.

 In Vietnam, over 90,000 people, mostly ethnic Thai, were relocated to make 
way for the Son La hydropower plant with Vietnamese scientists saying many were 
left without access to agricultural land.
 

Indiginous peoples around the world face displacement



 Meanwhile, in Cambodia's Prey Lang Forest region, home to the Kuy indigenous 
people, official land grants of tens of thousands of hectares of forest for 
mineral extraction, timber and rubber plantations have forced many people to 
give up their traditional livelihoods.

 Conflict has also been evident in Indonesia in areas of increased palm oil 
plantation development and the mining industry in Papua.

Investment from China seen as a driver for economic growth 

 Nicole Girard, the rights group's Asia Program Director, says levels of 
conflict over land is increasing in South East Asia, driven by foreign 
investment, including from China.

 "It's definitely increasing, the resource exploitation in indigenous people's 
territories; in Southeast Asia, the economies of Laos and Vietnam are opening 
to more foreign investment, including lots of Chinese investment and including 
Burma," Girard said.

 Girard says the increased fighting in Myanmar's ethnic controlled Kachin 
State over the past year is directly linked to conflict over resource 
investment largely by Chinese businesses.
 

Indigenous communities are also threatened by climate change



 Myanmar, led by the military-backed civilian government of President Thein 
Sein, has been undergoing reforms over the past year to improve its human 
rights situation. But Naw San, General Secretary of the Students and Youth 
Congress Burma (Myanmar) says despite steps to peace talks with ethnic groups 
in Myanmar, the development process is still not inclusive.

 "We are still worried that, like in the past, investment and development 
projects will be dealt with by the central government and that there will be 
(no real) engagement or consultations with the process on the ground," Naw San 
told DW.

 "What the ethnic (communities) need now is national equality," he said.

Two thirds of Indigenous People live in Asia

The Asia Indigenous People's Pact (AIPP) Foundation, in a separate report, 
noted that two thirds of the world's 370 million self-identified indigenous 
peoples live in Asia.

 And those people, according to the AIPP Foundation, "are currently 
marginalized and subordinated economically, politically and culturally."

 They are "overrepresented among the poor, illiterate, malnourished and 
stunted," it said.

 AIPP's report says for many in the region "militarization, (the) plundering 
of resources, forced relocation, cultural genocide and discrimination in 
everyday life are common experiences."

 The report pointed to the construction of dams in Asia, which since the 
1960s, has led to "massive displacements, loss of livelihoods, and food 
insecurity of indigenous peoples in India, the Philippines, Laos and Malaysia."

 Bernice See, an AIPP coordinator, said governments give priority to economic 
ventures and investments over people's rights.

 See called on Asia's governments to respect the UN's Declaration of the 
Rights of Indigenous peoples and the provisions calling for the "free prior of 
informed consent from any development that comes into their territory."

 "These governments should have the moral obligation to respect these 
agreements. The declaration should be used as a framework for dealing with 
indigenous people," she said.

 Author: Ron Corben
 Editor: Sarah Berning

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>