<ID>20120728-201
<DATE>20120728<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/syria-conflict-tests-allies-creates-new-enemies/a-16128532
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Syria conflict tests allies, creates new enemies
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
The Syrian conflict has shifted allegiances in the Middle East and forced members of the international community to take a stance. DW takes a close look at Syria's friends and foes around the world.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Bordering Lebanon, Israel, Jordan, Turkey and Iraq, Syria has a central 
geopolitical position in the Middle East. The region is of vital global 
importance for religious, political and economic reasons. It is where the 
world's three great monotheistic religions originated, is a bridge between 
Europe, Asia and Africa, and has the largest fossil fuel reserves in the world. 
Many global trade routes converge in the Middle East, home of the Suez Canal.

 Under President Bashar Assad, Syria has tried to stake out a position of 
leadership in the Arab world. The country saw itself leading efforts 
against the alleged "colonial" politics of the west, especially the US and 
Israel.


 

Key figures of the Shiite axis on a poster in Beirut

Assad's alliances with neighboring countries have made the Syrian uprising 
that started in spring 2011 a problem for the region and the rest of the world.

Iranian angle

 Syria is Iran's only ally among the Arab nations. Religious ties underpin the 
relationship.

 The Assad family belongs to the Alawite sect, which is closely related to 
the Shiite branch of Islam. The Shiites have their political and religious 
center in Iran.

 There are also political considerations. Syria, Iran and Lebanon form the 
so-called Shiite axis that works together against Israel. Lebanon is home to 
the militant Hezbollah group, which receives logistics support and weapons from 
Iran in the group's fight against Israel.

 A change of government in Syria stands to alter the Shiite axis. With Assad's 
fall, Iran would lose its most important ally.

Saudi Arabia and Qatar

 As the country where Islam was born, Saudi Arabia is the center of the 
conservative Sunni denomination. In terms of religion, it is Iran's biggest 
rival. Both countries compete over political dominance in the region. Saudi 
Arabia is also concerned about Iran's nuclear ambitions.

 Saudi Arabia stands to move even closer to its longtime ally the US in light 
of their common stance against Assad.

Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah welcomes Assad

Saudi Arabia has taken the lead among Arab countries calling for democracy and 
the rule of law in Syria. But at the same time, Saudi Arabia has helped 
neighboring Bahrain brutally suppress Shiite protests against the Sunni 
leadership there.

 Protests within Saudi Arabia are also met with force. According to Amnesty 
International, serious human rights violations are an everyday occurrence. 
Dedication to freedom and democracy is not necessarily Saudi Arabia's true 
objective in supporting Syria's opposition.

 Qatar is another close ally of the US. Just like Saudi Arabia, it is worried 
that Iran could become too powerful. Critics have accused Qatar-based Al 
Jazeera of bias in its Arabic-language coverage of the Syrian crisis. The 
influential broadcaster is owned by the emir of Qatar.

Iraqi ties

 After the US invasion of Iraq in 2006, Shiite Nuri Maliki became the 
country's prime minister. Maliki spent his exile during the reign of deposed 
dictator Saddam Hussein in exile in Iran and Syria. He has maintained his ties 
with the Assad regime.

 About 60 percent of Iraqis are Shiites, making the country close with both 
Iran and Syria. Baghdad sees them as allies against Sunni insurgents in Iraq.

Lebanon



Lebanon has seen protests as Hezbollah seeks to gain power

Developments in Syria have strongly affected its little neighbor Lebanon. 
Damascus actually sees Lebanon as an artificial construct that should become 
part of Syria.

 The Lebanese civil war saw Syrian troops in the country. Syrian forces 
stayed there even after the conflict ended. It was not until the murder of 
Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri - which was blamed on Damascus - that 
massive anti-Syrian protests led to a withdrawal of the troops.

 Hezbollah is a strong Assad ally, with members of the militant group 
reportedly joining the fight against Syrian rebels. Northern Lebanon is a major 
conduit for arms going into Syria.

 Meanwhile, Lebanon's Sunnis are lending support to Assad's opponents. The 
Syrian conflict has already sparked fighting between the two factions within 
Lebanon. The Lebanese government is trying to stay out of the Syria conflict. 
But it has to reckon with Hezbollah's representation in parliament, among other 
factors.

Israeli ties complex

 Israel has a twofold relationship with the Assad regime. On the one hand, 
Syria has been a reliable and predictable neighbor. Despite anti-Israeli 
sentiment in Damascus, the  Golan Heights border has remained calm.

 On the other hand, Syria has maintained close ties with Iran, Israel's 
biggest enemy in the region.

 Assad's fall would present mixed possibilities for Israel. If he loses power, 
a new Syrian regime could take a much more aggressive approach to Israel. At 
the same time, Assad's ouster could weaken Iran and make Israel more secure.

Turkey assertive


 

Erdogan is worried about trouble with the Kurds

In recent years, Turkey has worked to become a leader in its region. In that 
spirit, Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has vociferously called for 
Assad to step down from power.

 However, Turkey is concerned about Syrian Kurds, who have discussed forming 
an autonomous region since the beginning of the uprising. That could inspire 
Kurds in Turkey to step up their fight against Ankara.

 Turkey is also worried that Assad's fall could lead to armed conflict between 
Syria's various opposition groups. A continued struggle could throw the entire 
region into turmoil.

US favors rebels

 US military and economic strength has been greatly weakened by the wars in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. But Assad's fall would remove one of Washington's biggest 
enemies in the Middle East. The US is backing the rebels in hopes of seeing a 
friendly Syrian government in the future. Washington is not supplying them 
weapons, but is likely sending communications and other equipment through 
Turkey.

 Washington is also trying to limit Shiite influence in the region, as the US 
generally has better relations with Sunnis. The US also has Israel's interests 
in mind and hopes that Assad's ouster will weaken Iran.

Russia supporting Assad

 So far, Russia has vetoed every UN Security Council resolution against Syria. 
Russia has been an ally of Syria since the Soviet era. Damascus is Moscow's 
last remaining ally in the region.

 Working through Syria is the only way Russia can still try to influence the 
Middle East. The Syrian port city of Tartus also hosts Russia's only military 
port on the Mediterranean Sea.


 

Assad greets Russia's foreign minister in Syria earlier this year

Further, Damascus is an important customer for Russia's weapons industry. 
Russian energy companies also do business in Syria.

 Russia is also concerned about its standing in the Arab world. If Russia 
gives politicians in the region the impression that Russia will not aid its 
allies, there will be little incentive to be on good terms with Moscow.

 Another reason for Russia support of Syria is Moscow's fear that radical 
Islamists would dominate a post-Assad Syria.

China on Syria's side

 China has pursued a course of economic expansion for years. It has been 
looking for ways to quench its thirst for resources, including oil, all over 
the world. That's why Beijing is trying to increase its influence in the Middle 
East. China's strongest ties are with Iran. But like Russia, China is 
banking that Assad will stay in power.

 The Chinese government has justified its veto in the UN Security Council by 
saying it respects Syria's right to handle its affairs without outside 
intervention. That's a right China has striven to claim for itself in the cases 
of Tibet and Xinjiang.

 If the Chinese government backed intervention in Syria, it would likely face 
more criticism for its own policies back home.
 

The Syrian and Chinese foreign ministers in Beijing

The European Union

 EU member countries have maintained rather discrete ties with the Assad 
regime over the years. The Syrian leadership tried to appear distant from the 
west, but kept up pragmatic, economic relations with the EU. Brussels also 
backed many civil society projects in Syria.

 In light of the past year and a half of violence, though, EU member states 
have clearly distanced themselves from Damascus. The Assad regime is no longer 
a viable candidate for European partnership.

 Author: Kersten Knipp /ai
 Editor: Shant Shahrigian

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>