<ID>20120823-190
<DATE>20120823<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/pakistani-shiites-are-victims-of-regional-politics/a-16188813
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Pakistani Shiites are 'victims of regional politics'
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Pakistani development experts and activists say the massacre of Shiite Muslims in Gilgit-Baltistan and other northern parts of Pakistan is linked to ongoing development programs in the area and regional politics.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Last week, several gunmen, who were in the guise of Pakistani security 
officials, stopped a passenger bus travelling from Rawalpindi to the 
northwestern Gilgit region and dragged the travelers off the bus. The gunmen 
asked the passengers to show their identity cards, after which they brutally 
killed 22 of them at point blank range, making sure that they belonged to the 
minority Shiite community. The Taliban, a Sunni-Wahabi militant organization, 
claimed responsibility of the attack.

 It was the third such incident in six months. Pakistani experts say that 
although Shiite Muslims are also murdered in other parts of Pakistan, the 
Shiites living in the northwestern Gilgit-Baltistan region, a predominantly 
Shiite area, face a systematic onslaught by the Taliban. Some experts go to an 
extent of calling it "sectarian cleansing" of the Shiites.

Unlike Wahabi groups who are close to Saudi Arabia, Pakistani Shia groups are 
allied with Iran

In a similar incident on February 28, gunmen in military fatigues shot dead 18 
Shiite Muslims in the northern Kohistan district while they were travelling 
from Rawalpindi to Gilgit. On April 3, a Sunni mob pulled nine Shiites out of 
buses and murdered them in the town of Chilas, about 60 miles south of Gilgit.

 Pakistani human rights groups accuse the country's security agencies of 
backing Sunni militants and failing to protect the minority groups of the 
country.

 "The killings are doubtless the work of those who want to destroy Pakistan, 
but a failure to nab and punish the killers is also contributing to the same 
end ... the Taliban (are) nobody's friends and those who created this monster 
have taken Pakistan down the road to annihilation," said Pakistan's 
non-governmental Human Rights Commission of Pakistan in a statement, directly 
holding the Taliban and state agencies responsible for the massacre.

Control over Gilgit-Baltistan

 Gilgit-Baltistan used to be a popular tourist destination but now not many 
people travel to these areas because of the unrest. Gilgit-Baltistan lies about 
10 kilometers off the Karakoram Highway, which connects it to the Pakistani 
capital Islamabad in the south and to the Chinese cities of Tashkurgan, Upal 
and Kashgar in the northern Xinjiang province. To the west of Gilgit-Baltistan 
lies Afghanistan and on its southwest is Pakistani Administered Kashmir.

Gilgit-Baltistan is known for its breath-taking scenic beauty and glaciers

Pakistani experts say the sectarian violence in Gilgit-Baltistan, which was 
given the status of an administrative province by President Zardari in 2009, is 
also linked to regional politics and to ongoing and future development projects 
in the area.

 Maqsood Ahmad Jan, a development expert in Islamabad, told DW that the 
violence in Gilgit-Baltistan region increased considerably after the Pakistan 
People's Party's government elevated the status of the once-reclusive and 
semi-governed region.

 "Currently, I am working with the Plan International organization and we are 
working to implement some projects in Gilgit, but the continued violence has 
impeded the pace of our projects. Other development organizations working in 
this area also complain about the same," Jan said.

 Many development experts are of the view that militant Sunni groups are not 
in favor of a prosperous and autonomous Shiite-dominated Gilgit-Baltistan 
region so close to Afghanistan, China and Kashmir. Defense experts say that 
peace in Gilgit-Baltistan would also be a setback for hard-line Kashmiri 
militant groups, which claim that Gilgit-Baltistan is part of Kashmir. 
Gilgit-Baltistan Shiites have always opposed any move to annex their region 
with Pakistan Administered Kashmir because they fear it would turn them into a 
minority.

 The Taliban, say experts, see the majority Shiite Gilgit-Baltistan as a 
threat to their Wahabi political agenda and their influence in the Pakistani 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province which borders Afghanistan.

Geo-politics
 

The Taliban want to control the Shia Gilgit region

But there are others who say that the Shiite massacre in Gilgit-Baltistan was 
actually a war of interests between regional players.

 "It is somehow linked to the 'war on terror' and US policies in the region, 
especially its policy towards Iran," Sartaj Khan, an editor in Karachi, told 
DW. "I think the US and Pakistani agencies, with the backing of Saudi Arabia, 
are arming militant Sunni groups to suppress the Shiites in the region to kill 
any possible support for Iran."

 Khan added that the Pakistani agencies had given a "free hand" to militant 
organizations like the Sipah-e-Sahaba, a Sunni organization believed to be 
responsible for various attacks on Pakistani Shiites in the past, to operate in 
Gilgit-Baltistan.

 Karachi-based Shiite activist Syed Ali Mujtaba Zaidi also blamed US policies 
in the region for the instability in Pakistan's northern areas and the conflict 
between the Shiites and Sunnis.

 "The US intends to demoralize us, make us feel hopeless and helpless, so that 
it can continue to play its politics in the region. Its main motive is to 
counter China and Iran." Zaidi told DW, adding that he believed extremists 
Sunni groups like the Taliban were working for the US' interests in the region.

 On his part, Hameed Satti, a development consultant in Islamabad, told DW 
that Pakistanis had a habit of blaming foreign countries for their problems, 
and that it was not surprising for him that the massacre of the Shiites, which 
he believed was a result of state policies, was blamed on the US.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>