<ID>20131108-4
<DATE>20131108<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/uighur-leader-highly-suspicious-of-beijings-terror-claim/a-17215131
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Uighur leader: 'Highly suspicious of Beijing's terror claim'
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
After a fatal car crash at Tiananmen Square, Uighurs fear more restrictions by authorities in China. Exiled leader Rebiya Kadeer says Beijing is using the incident as an excuse to further oppress the ethnic minority.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 On October 28, a car ploughed through bystanders on the edge of Tiananmen 
Square and burst into flames, killing the three in the car as well as two 
bystanders. Initially, it was unclear whether the crash had been an accident or 
a deliberate strike.

 But the Chinese government later made five arrests and referred to the 
incident as a "terrorist attack" carried out by Islamist militants from 
Xinjiang, a region in China's northwest where Muslim Uighurs make up around 45 
percent of the population. The autonomous region has been the scene of several
violent clashes 
, the most 
recent of which left dozens dead in April, June and August of this year.

 China's top security official, Meng Jianzhu, described the East Turkestan 
Islamic Movement (ETIM), based in Central and West Asia, as "behind-the-scenes 
supporters" of the fatal vehicle crash. Ethnic Uighurs now say they're facing 
new police scrutiny in Beijing following the Tiananmen incident. In a DW 
interview, the US-based exiled leader of Xinjiang's Muslim Uighur minority,
Rebiya Kadeer 

, calls for an internationally-verified and independent investigation into the 
October 28 incident.

DW: How likely is it that Uighurs were behind the incident at Tiananmen Square?

 Rebiya Kadeer: I am highly suspicious of Beijing's claim that last Monday's 
incident was an Uighur-inspired terrorist incident, because this alleged attack 
did not show many of the signs of a premeditated, planned terrorist attack, as 
China claims.
 

Kadeer says the car crash did not show many of the signs of a premeditated, 
planned terrorist attack

 As long as the Chinese government is unwilling to cooperate with the 
international community, the international media and its own public to release 
evidence pertaining to the details of the incident, I am afraid that the world 
will never know what happened on October 28th at Tiananmen Square.

 What's worse is that the damage to my people, the millions of innocent Uighur 
people of East Turkestan [an area in China's north-western Xinjiang province, 
but a term associated with Uighur separatists and not recognized by the Chinese 
government], has already been done. Because of the unsubstantiated claims of a 
Uighur terrorist attack on the capital, the Chinese authorities have begun to 
step up the long-standing, repressive crackdown on the Uighur people.

Assuming that Uighurs were involved in the incident, what could have driven 
them to commit such an act?

 Assuming intention was involved in this incident, Beijing's cruel and 
repressive policies towards the Uighurs are to blame. Specifically, recent 
crackdowns on religious beliefs, culture and identity have proven to be more 
intense than ever, demonstrating that the Chinese government actively seeks to 
totally marginalize and demonize the Uighur people - actions which have 
effectively pushed the Uighurs into a state of utter despair.

DW recommends

Ethnic tensions escalating in Xinjiang

The latest incidents of deadly violence in China's northwestern region of 
Xinjiang indicate that Beijing's policies towards ethnic minorities have 
reached a dead end. (05.07.2013)
  
'We will fight until they grant us self-determination'

Rebiya Kadeer, the exiled leader of the World Uighur Congress, is in Japan to 
draw attention to the struggle of her people in China. In a DW interview she 
says her people will continue fighting for independence. (21.06.2013)
 

China punishes Xinjiang military boss after Beijing attack

China's Communist Party says it has sacked the military chief of Xinjiang from 
the region's governing council. The dismissal follows an attack in Beijing 
officially blamed on Islamist militants from Xinjiang. (03.11.2013)
 

Riots in China's western Xinjiang region leave dozens dead

More than two dozen people have died in clashes with police in China’s western 
Xinjiang region. The riots are the deadliest since the 2009 clashes between 
Muslims and the Han Chinese population there. (26.06.2013)
 

 Furthermore, Beijing continues to restrict freedom of speech and maintain 
practices of forced assimilation, which is not relieving the already tense 
situation in East Turkestan. Instead, these highly repressive policies and 
egregious human rights violations are only making the situation worse, 
effectively causing Uighurs to feel even more estranged. Now, more than ever 
before, Uighurs are frustrated, desperate and hopeless in the face of continued 
repression at the hands of the Chinese government.

The World Uighur Congress (WUC) rejected the way in which the Chinese 
government has dealt with the Tiananmen explosion in public. What exactly does 
the WUC accuse Beijing of?

 The WUC accuses the Chinese government of being extremely irresponsible in 
the way it has treated the Tiananmen explosion, and hopes that it will 
immediately expose the truth, backed up by evidence gathered by an 
internationally-verified, independent investigation. Furthermore, the WUC 
accuses Beijing of exaggerating a Uighur terrorist threat, and urges the 
international community to read the Chinese Media with caution.

What kind of measures has Beijing taken in the aftermath of the incident?

 The Chinese government has intensified surveillance, harassment, censorship, 
detention, and interrogation of Uighurs. Chinese authorities have already begun 
to round up Uighurs living in Beijing and other Chinese cities. They have 
intensified the repression in East Turkestan and begun to detain jobless Uighur 
youth in many cities. They have erected more checkpoints in East Turkestan, 
arbitrarily stopping cars and harassing Uighurs.

Beijing claims that the so-called East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) is 
active in Xinjiang, and that it represents a "clear threat to China." What is 
your comment on that claim?

 I am confident that there is no organized terrorist threat within East 
Turkestan. I feel that Beijing has exaggerated an ETIM terrorist threat. One 
thing is clear: the Chinese government has used three evils - terrorism, 
separatism and religious extremism - as an excuse to further oppress the Uighur 
people and to invoke the approval from the West under the auspices of fighting 
global terror.
 

Kadeer: 'Chinese authorities have begun to step up the long-standing 
repressive crackdown on the Uighur people'

Is there a way for Uighurs and Han Chinese to live in harmony?

 I feel that the only way for peace to be achieved is through policies that 
respect the rights, freedoms and dignity of the Uighur people. Beijing needs to 
adopt policies that ensure self-determination, free and fair treatment, 
economic equality and political rights of my people.

 It is quite simple: all Beijing has to do is protect every citizen's rights 
as promised in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and China's own 
constitution, and peace will be realized.

Rebiya Kadeer is the president of the Munich-based World Uighur Congress.

 The interview was conducted by Gabriel Domínguez.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>