<ID>20141021-276
<DATE>20141021<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/analyst-beijing-will-not-accept-real-democracy-in-hong-kong/a-18010646
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Analyst: 'Beijing will not accept real democracy in Hong Kong'
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Hong Kong's government said it hoped for more talks with pro-democracy protesters following the first formal negotiations. But as China scholar Perry Link tells DW, no compromise on universal suffrage is expected.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 Hong Kong's government and student leaders met on October 21 for their first 
talks after three weeks of pro-democracy protests. But, as widely expected, 
there was no breakthrough in the negotiations, with Chief Secretary Carrie Lam 
reiterating the government's position that open nominations were not possible 
under Hong Kong law. "Hong Kong is not an independent country. It is only a 
special administrative region within China, and we need to work within the 
framework set by the National People's Congress," said Lam.

 The student leaders, in turn, urged the government to stop treating the 
decision of the central government on the semi-autonomous region's election 
rules as "unshakeable." Government negotiators said they hoped for further 
talks down the line, but student leaders have yet to decide whether or not to 
hold a second round. Many in Hong Kong are angry at Beijing's refusal to allow 
genuine universal suffrage in the city in 2017 and have staged protests 
occupying major traffic arteries of the semi-autonomous region.
 

Link: 'Beijing views the Hong Kong protests as a genuine threat to its 
survival'

In a DW interview, China scholar Perry Link says that while minor progress may 
be made in future talks which allow both the protesters to save face and the 
authorities to buy time, there is simply no room for a compromise on the key 
issue of universal suffrage, as Beijing views the ongoing protests in Hong Kong 
as a genuine threat to its survival.

DW: If the student leaders decide to continue negotiations, what do you expect 
to come out of future talks?

 Perry Link: I would expect a stalemate in the talks or, at most, some very 
minor progress or some promises from the government that postpone the 
substantive question to future talks. This kind of postponement could be 
face-saving for the student negotiators, who could say "at least we got 
something," and for the government it could buy time.

How far do you think both sides are willing to compromise?

 Compromise on secondary, tactical issues is possible. By "secondary issues" I 
mean, for the students, compromises as large as agreeing to a temporary 
withdrawal from the streets and, for the government, compromises as large as 
whether to replace [Hong Kong Chief Executive] Mr. C.Y. Leung with some other 
Beijing-loyalist as chief administrator.

 But on the essential issue of whether Hong Kong people will be able to 
nominate their own candidates for chief administrator in the 2017 elections, I 
believe there is no room for compromise on either side.
 

Beijing will not accept real democracy while the students will not accept 
pretend democracy, says Link

 Beijing will not accept real democracy, while the students will not accept 
pretend democracy.

 The reason for the Chinese authorities to do so has little to do with Hong 
Kong itself, and everything to do with the example it would set for the rest of 
China, as this would show that democracy and Chinese culture do fit together 
well - despite what the government has been telling its people for many years - 
and if that idea were to spread in mainland China, the Communist Party's 
one-party rule would unravel. Beijing views the Hong Kong protests as a genuine 
threat to its survival.

Some analysts and government insiders recently quoted by the New York Times 
argue that Beijing is directing broad strokes of the Hong Kong strategy. What 
is your view on this?

 There is no question at all that the broad strokes of the Hong Kong 
government policy are designed in Beijing, and indeed at the very top in 
Beijing. It would be naive in the extreme to assume otherwise.

Hong Kong's embattled chief executive has said the city's pro-democracy 
movement is "out of hand" and being influenced by "external forces" from 
outside the city. What do you make of this?

 This language from C.Y. Leung is a good example of the "broad strokes of 
policy" that are sent from Beijing to Hong Kong. For decades, the rulers in 
Beijing have used these same points - that protesters "create turmoil" and are 
"backed by foreign forces" - in order to try to discredit anyone who presents 
organized objection to their rule. The pro-democracy demonstrators at Tiananmen 
Square - but also the Uighurs, the Tibetans, civil-rights lawyers, 
environmental activists, and many others - have all heard this language before.

What role is Hong Kong's police force playing in the dispute?

 The Hong Kong police of course must obey the broad outlines of what Beijing 
dictates. That said, the ordinary police on the streets are Hong Kong people. 
It is natural that they have complex, mixed feelings about the protestors.

What is, in your view, the most likely way out of the current crisis?

 In the short term, I think the government will continue its strategy of 
waiting out the protesters by pretending to talk seriously while continuing 
with its publicity campaign to discredit the protesters, and I think this 
strategy will work fairly well.
 

Pro-democracy protestors watched the talks on a video screen near the 
government headquarters in Hong Kong

 I think it is likely that the government will try to find, or perhaps 
manufacture, some "incident" in which the protesters look bad, or to identify a 
particular "villain" among them, and then use that incident or that villain to 
distract attention from the main issue and to make themselves seem to be in the 
right. I make this guess because it is a common pattern that the leaders in 
Beijing have used elsewhere.

 In the long term, I do not think that "waiting out the opposition" will work 
for Beijing. I think Hong Kong people will get their democracy in the long term.

China scholar Perry Link is Chancellorial Chair Professor for Innovative 
Teaching Comparative Literature & Foreign Languages in College of Humanities, 
Arts, and Social Sciences at the University of California, Riverside, and 
Emeritus Professor of Asian Studies at Princeton University.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>