<ID>20150426-142
<DATE>20150426<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/activists-murder-spotlights-armys-abuses-in-pakistans-balochistan/a-18409895
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Activist's murder spotlights army's abuses in Pakistan's Balochistan
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Pakistani military's alleged rights abuses in western Balochistan province have come under scrutiny after the killing of activist Sabeen Mahmud in Karachi. Mahmud held a talk on the issue right before she was shot dead.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

The murder of Sabeen Mahmud 

 on Friday has turned the spotlight on Pakistan's conflict-ridden Balochistan 
province and the Islamic country's powerful army's human rights violations in 
the region.

 Balochistan, which borders Afghanistan and Iran, is rich in oil, gas, and 
minerals, yet it remains Pakistan's poorest province. Rebel groups have waged a 
separatist insurgency in the province for decades, complaining that the central 
government in Islamabad and the richer Punjab province unfairly exploit their 
resources. In 2005, Islamabad reacted to the insurgency by launching a military 
operation in the province.

 Mahmud, the 40-year-old civil liberties activist and social worker was 
director of The Second Floor (T2F), a community space for open dialogue. On 
Friday, T2F organized a talk called "Unsilencing Balochistan Take 2," featuring 
two prominent Baloch rights activists - Mama Abdul Qadeer and Farzana Baluch - 
who have been campaigning forthe missing Baloch people 
. Rights 
groups say these people have beenillegally detained by the military's 
intelligence agencies 
.
 

 Local rights groups have the details of 8,000 people who they say have been 
disappeared over the past ten years and have not been seen since. According to 
the Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC), 23 bullet-riddled bodies of these 
missing persons were discovered in different parts of Balochistan in January 
2012. From August 2011 to January 2012, 56 Baloch people are known to have been 
murdered and dumped on roadsides, according to AHRC.

 Pakistani security agencies claim these people were arrested on terrorism 
charges. However, the whereabouts of these people are kept secret from the 
public; they have not been presented to local courts for a proper trial.

 Observers say that Balochistan, despite major development projects initiated 
by Islamabad, including the recently-signed $46 billionChina-Pakistan Economic 
Corridor (CPEC) project 

, remains a no-go area for the media. The local media rarely reports about the 
rampant rights abuses in the province, whereas Baloch activists are constantly 
harassed and kidnapped by security agencies, say analysts.

 Qadeer and Baluch had originally been scheduled to speak at a seminar titled 
'Unsilencing Baluchistan' at the Lahore University of Management Sciences some 
weeks ago. The event was canceled, reportedly after pressure from Inter 
Services Intelligence (ISI), Pakistani army's spy agency. That's when Mahmud 
decided to invite the two Baloch nationalists to a seminar at T2F, defying the 
pressure from the authorities.

 But it seems that Mahmud's death has broken the silence surrounding 
Balochistan, as more Pakistanis are talking about the province.

 Pakistan's Nobel laureate for Peace, Malala Yousafzai, also condemned 
Sabeen's murder.

 So did Pakistan's Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. In a statement released by 
prime minister's office on Saturday, Sharif said he was ordering a high-level 
investigation into Mahmud's killing.

 The Islamic country's ubiquitous army, too, condemned the activist's 
assassination.

CPEC to 'aggravate rights abuses'

 The China-Pakistan economic corridor deal has raised the stakes for the 
Pakistani government in Balochistan. The CPEC would link Pakistan's southern 
Gwadar port in Balochistan on the Arabian Sea to China's western Xinjiang 
region. It also includes plans to create a road, rail and oil pipeline links 
which would improve connectivity between China and the Middle East.

In a DW interview 

, Brahamdagh Bugti, leader of the Baloch Republican Party living in exile in 
Switzerland, and grandson of slain nationalist leader Akbar Bugti, says that 
the multi-billion dollar economic corridor deal between China and Pakistan 
could spur rights violations in Balochistan.

 "I think there will be massive human rights abuses in Balochistan because of 
this deal. To secure their financial interests in the province, Islamabad is 
likely to intensify its military operation there. They will do so in the name 
of providing security to the multinational and Chinese companies that are 
investing in the project. They would not even allow peaceful demonstrations and 
protests against the CPEC," said Bugti.

 Development analyst Maqsood Ahmad Jan told DW the CPEC would turn Pakistan 
into "China's economic colony."

 With money pouring in from China for the establishment of the economic 
corridor, those demanding more transparency about the Balochistan province are 
likely to facethe ire of Pakistan's security agencies 

.

 "The deep state already controls media in reference to Balochistan coverage," 
wrote Pakistani novelist and journalist, Mohammed Hanif, referring to 
Islamabad's policy to look for strategic and geo-political depth in Afghanistan 
and Balochistan to thwart India's potential influence. "Now Baloch voices can't 
(even) be heard in private spaces," he added, alluding to Mahmud's murder.

 Islamabad-based journalist, Abdul Sattar, however, was optimistic about the 
situation: "Sabeen Mahmud was a courageous woman who dared to voice against all 
kinds of extremism. She dared to talk about Balochistan when most people chose 
to remain silent and save their lives. We should not let her death go in vain. 
Let's talk about Balochistan more vociferously than ever," he told DW.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>