<ID>20150421-138
<DATE>20150421<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/xi-visit-takes-sino-pakistani-ties-to-new-level/a-18396165
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Xi visit takes Sino-Pakistani ties to new level
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
As China's President Xi Jinping wraps up a historic two-day visit to Pakistan that saw the signing of deals worth $46 billion, DW talks to expert Andrew Small about what the trip means for bilateral ties and the region.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 In his maiden official visit to Pakistan - which ended on April 21 - Chinese 
President Xi Jinping signed 51 accords to inaugurate the China-Pakistan 
Economic Corridor (CPEC), which will create a network of roads, railways and 
pipelines linking China's restive west to the Arabian Sea through Pakistan. The 
deals are also expected to boost Pakistan's underperforming economy and 
generate employment opportunities in the country.

 Xi also addressed the Pakistani parliament, pledging to work together with 
the South Asian nation and applauding Islamabad's efforts to curb terrorism and 
promised to stand by its neighbor in overcoming security challenges. A day 
earlier the leader of Asia's biggest economy was received with unprecedented 
fanfare in Islamabad.

 But despite the enthusiasm and the more-than-ever cordial Sino-Pakistani 
ties, analysts say that Beijing's main interest in the Islamic country is to 
expand its reach across Central and South Asia in order to counter the US and 
Indian influence.

 In an interview with DW, China expert Andrew Small, a fellow with the Asia 
program of German Marshall Fund of the United States, says the Chinese 
investment could be a major boost for the ailing Pakistani economy but the 
authorities will face a number of logistical, political and security challenge 
in the implementation of projects.
 

Andrew Small

DW: How significant was President Xi's visit for Pakistan and its struggling 
economy?

 Andrew Small: It was an unusually important visit. Even if only some of the 
economic projects envisaged between the two sides succeed, it would be a major 
investment boost for the Pakistani economy and provide serious support towards 
addressing Pakistan's energy crisis.

 Ideally, it would also help the country's transition towards becoming an 
economic hub and an emerging market, but that will be more challenging.

 Many of the plans for the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) will take 
some time to come to fruition, so despite all the fanfare, the short-term 
political implications will be modest - but could be very significant over the 
long-term. It will also place China far closer to the political centre-stage in 
Pakistan.

 When the relationship was very narrowly focused on military and security 
matters, it could be managed by a relatively small group of people on the two 
sides - now it brings a much wider group of actors into play and leaves China 
more exposed. Although the whole initiative is generally popular, there have 
already been political controversies about who will benefit, given the scale of 
investment involved.

But how can the CPEC help boost bilateral investment and trade ties?

 The China-Pakistan Economic Corridor is often seen just as a set of 
infrastructure linkages between Xinjiang province, in northwest China, and the 
Pakistani port of Gwadar. That is part of the plan, but many of the projects 
under the auspices of the corridor are power plants, industrial ventures, and 
other economic initiatives in different parts of the country.

 If the principal infrastructure plans succeed, they would develop Gwadar as a 
major Indian Ocean port for transshipment to China and connect up with 
pipelines to Iran, trade routes through Afghanistan, and potentially help to 
develop economic linkages with India in the end too.

DW recommends

China expands influence in 'economic colony' Pakistan

Xi Jinping's visit to Pakistan promises to boost the Islamic country's 
struggling economy, but experts warn there are many strings attached to 
Beijing's aid. Why does Pakistan need to be careful in dealing with China? 
(20.04.2015)
 

Asia-Pacific countries increasingly resort to death penalty to curb crime

Asia-Pacific nations, excluding China, executed fewer people and issued fewer 
death sentences last year than in 2013, a new AI report shows. But the study 
also points to some worrisome trends in the region. DW examines. (01.04.2015)
 

The Sino-Pakistani axis: Asia's 'little understood' relationship

China and Pakistan have been described as "all weather friends," but the 
nature of their ties remains secretive. DW talks to analyst Andrew Small, about 
some of the most sensitive aspects of this strategic relationship. (15.01.2015)
 

 But even if some of these plans do not come off, it will notably improve the 
land trade route between Pakistan and China, the infrastructure in Pakistan 
itself, and the country's capacity to generate sufficient power to address its 
energy needs.

What challenges does the realization of these projects face?

 There are logistical, political and security challenges. The logistical 
challenges are significant. The Karakoram Highway has been closed for five 
years after a landslide caused a lake to flood stretches of the route, and the 
road and railway plans will be subject to similar threats from the natural 
environment in future.

 Travel up the highway, and through the high mountain passes, it is tough to 
imagine it as a smoothly functioning trade artery. The political challenges are 
familiar ones in Pakistan – the capacity of the government to execute the 
plans, suspicions about whether some of benefits will be directed to 
politically connected companies and regions rather than the most effective 
economic partners, corruption problems and so on.

 The security challenges are also familiar - groups in conflict with the 
Pakistani government will target the projects, whether that is Balochi 
nationalists or the Pakistani Taliban, and instability in specific parts of the 
country will make some the investments hard to pull off.

How does China benefit from providing all this assistance to Pakistan?

 It's not really assistance - these are investments, and the Pakistani side 
has also provided part of the financing. But China's willingness to provide 
concessional loans does have several broader benefits in mind.
 

Even if only some of the economic projects envisaged between the two sides 
succeed, it would be a major investment boost for the Pakistani economy

 The CPEC forms part of the Silk Road Economic Belt and Maritime Silk Road, Xi 
Jinping's signature foreign policy initiative, which is intended to help drive 
growth in the Chinese interior through developing better infrastructure 
connections with South Asia, Central Asia, its principal markets in Europe and 
its natural resource suppliers in the Middle East.

 Chinese companies that can no longer pursue large infrastructure investments 
in China, while the country shifts to a more consumption-driven growth model, 
are being pushed to do so abroad instead. But it is also a stabilization plan 
for China's western periphery – with the US withdrawal from Afghanistan and the 
worsening terrorist threat in Xinjiang, China has grown far more concerned 
about rising militancy in South and Central Asia.

 These economic initiatives are supposed to help address that, including by 
stabilizing Pakistan itself, which has been a particular source of concern for 
China, given that Uighur militant groups have been based in the Pakistani 
tribal areas for much of the last decade.

Many analysts argue however, that this economic aid comes with many strings 
attached. What price is Islamabad set to pay level of financial support?

 Most of the strings for Chinese financing involve the bidding terms for 
contracts and the involvement of Chinese companies. Beyond that, Beijing 
doesn't demand much of Pakistan that it wouldn't receive anyway, given the two 
sides' longstanding and close security relationship.

 In this instance though, there are expectations from China that Pakistan 
should ensure a stable environment for such a large set of investments – that 
doesn't just mean the protection of projects, it also means that Beijing wants 
Pakistan to stabilize its relationships with its neighbors, especially 
Afghanistan, and refrain from embroiling itself in any activities that might 
create security problems in the wider region.

To which extent can the rampant militancy and volatile security situation in 
the country impede the implementation of these projects?

 Some of the projects could certainly be impaired - Chinese companies have 
withdrawn after attacks and kidnappings before. If the transportation links are 
not secure then they won't be economically viable. But many of the projects 
have also been planned for less volatile parts of the country, or can be pretty 
well protected, so barring a serious deterioration in Pakistan's security a 
number of them will move forward anyway.

What implications does this visit have for the rest of the region, especially 
India and Afghanistan?

 The China-Pakistan Economic Corridor provides an incentive for Pakistan to 
improve its economic and political relations with its neighbors, and also some 
opportunities for them to use the corridor as part of their own trade linkages 
with China, especially in the case of Afghanistan and Iran.
 

There are logistical, political and security challenges to the China-Pakistan 
Economic Corridor, says Small

 India will be less comfortable with the infrastructure projects in Kashmir 
and the development of port facilities that could be used for military purposes 
too. The focus on economic relations during the public aspects of the visit has 
in some ways distracted attention from the fact that the China-Pakistan 
relationship is still underpinned by the militaries on the two sides.

 Xi's visit will almost certainly have involved new defense agreements and 
cooperation plans too, much of which still has a traditional focus on 
Pakistan's balancing role vis-à-vis India. But the broad trajectory of the 
relationship, which involves a far more serious-minded focus on 
counter-terrorism issues than in the past, is one that should benefit even 
countries that are wary of the two sides' close security ties.

Andrew Small is a transatlantic fellow with the Asia program of German 
Marshall Fund of the United States and author of the book "The China-Pakistan 
Axis - Asia's New Geopolitics." You can follow him on Twitter @ajwsmall.

The interview was conducted by Gabriel Domínguez.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>