<ID>20150420-139
<DATE>20150420<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/china-expands-influence-in-economic-colony-pakistan/a-18393881
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
China expands influence in 'economic colony' Pakistan
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Xi Jinping's visit to Pakistan promises to boost the Islamic country's struggling economy, but experts warn there are many strings attached to Beijing's aid. Why does Pakistan need to be careful in dealing with China?
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 The fanfare and frenzy over Chinese President Xi Jinping's maiden Pakistan 
visit is extraordinary. It is certainly much bigger than any previous visit by 
a Chinese head of state to the South Asian country. Prior to Xi's two-day 
visit, which he described as a "homecoming," giant portraits of the Chinese 
leader were erected all over the capital Islamabad along with messages of an 
ever-lasting Sino-Pakistani friendship.

 The Chinese leader's plane was escorted by Pakistani fighter jets, and he was 
received at the airport by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, President Mamnoon 
Hussain, and Army Chief Raheel Sharif along with a host a ministers. Xi was 
given a full guard of honor on his arrival, on Monday, April 20.

 So what is so special about Xi's visit? According to experts, Pakistan 
desperately needs economic aid and geopolitical support, both of which appear 
to be in jeopardy since the withdrawal of the US combat troops from Afghanistan 
and Washington's relative lack of interest in the region, particularly in 
Pakistan.

Boosting bilateral trade

 Beijing seems more than willing to replace Washington. During his stay in 
Pakistan,the Chinese president will sign deals related to energy and 
infrastructure projects worth $46 billion 

, which are expected to spur Pakistan's underperforming economy and generate 
employment opportunities in the country.

 Beijing is also likely to finalize an agreement to sell eight submarines to 
Islamabad - worth between $4 billion and $5 billion, according to media 
reports. Xi's visit is also set to boost bilateral trade, which grew to $10 
billion last year from $4 billion in 2007.
 

Xi's 'homecoming:' Pakistani officials were on their toes

 But Chinese investment in Pakistan doesn't come without a price. With the 
China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Beijing aims to expand its influence 
on Pakistan and across Central and South Asia in order to counter the US and 
Indian influence. The CPEC would link Pakistan's southern Gwadar port on the 
Arabian Sea to China's western Xinjiang region. It also includes plans to 
create a road, rail and oil pipeline links which would improve connectivity 
between China and the Middle East.

 Analysts say that Pakistan is more than willing to support China in its 
regional ambitions and be a "client state", given that the US has very little 
to offer economically and geo-politically in the present circumstances.

 "Pakistan knows that China is going to be the superpower in ten years. 
Islamabad is getting closer to Beijing and its alliance with Washington is 
slowly and gradually taking a back seat," Ali Shah, a Pakistani researcher in 
Karachi, told DW.

Economic dependence

 "Although much of the language used to describe ties between the two sides 
can sound hyperbolic - 'all-weather friends,' 'deeper than the deepest ocean,' 
'sweeter than honey' - it reflects the unusual nature of a secretive 
relationship that is the only real friendship that either side has,"Andrew 
Small, a US-based China expert and author of the book "The China-Pakistan Axis 
- Asia's New Geopolitics," told DW 

.

 "Founded on a shared enmity for India, the relationship has in some respects 
run deeper than formal alliances, especially when it comes to nuclear 
cooperation, and has been remarkably resilient over the dramatic economic and 
geopolitical shifts of the last few decades," he added.

 For Pakistan, China has become more important than ever before, says 
development analyst, Maqsood Ahmad Jan.
 

Islamist militants could impede China's economic projects in Pakistan

 "Islamabad has no other option but to increase cooperation with Beijing and 
do what it says," Jan told DW. "Saudi Arabia can't be as big an investor as 
China, and US is unreliable. And the Pakistani government needs money 
urgently," he added.

 Jan goes on to say that Pakistan has sold out to China for $46 billion. "I 
think the Chinese aid is not for free. Pakistan's economy is not that big, so 
Beijing will now take over most of our income-generating sectors."

 But Ahsan Iqbal, Pakistan's minister for planning and development, believes 
the forthcoming economic deals with China would be beneficial for his country. 
"The real opportunity of this China-Pakistan Economic Corridor is that it 
changes the scope of the relationship from geopolitics to geo-economics," Iqbal 
told journalists, adding that the projects would have a "significant 
transformative effect on Pakistan's economy."

 Jan, however, does not agree with Iqbal's assessment of Sino-Pakistani 
economic ties. "This will turn us into China's economic colony instead."

Security concerns

 But the trickiest part in the Sino-Pakistani ties is the implementation of 
the proposed economic projects, which face the biggest challenge in the form of 
Islamist militancy and a protracted separatist insurgency in Pakistan's restive 
Balochistan province, which is key part of the CPEC route.

Will Baloch separatists, who demand their share of the province's wealth, 
allow Islamabad to implement the CPEC?

China is also very wary of Islamist activities in its Muslim-dominated areas 
. 
Beijing believes the Taliban and al Qaeda, or groups affiliated with them, are 
instigating its Muslim population. China is certainly not in favor of an 
Afghanistan which is dominated by the Taliban, who it believes lends sanctuary 
to the Muslim Uighur separatist groups in the autonomous western region of 
Xinjiang. China has repeatedly asked Islamabad to use its influence over the 
Taliban to quell the insurgency.

 On top of this, Chinese citizens have been targeted by the Taliban in 
Pakistan on numerous occasions. In 2013, three Chinese tourists were killed by 
the Pakistani Taliban on the mountainous region of Nanga Parbat, which 
presented was a huge embarrassment for the Pakistani authorities.

 "Chinese investments have been constrained by Pakistan's instability and 
security threats to Chinese workers. By some measures, Pakistan has been the 
most dangerous place to be an overseas Chinese," said Small.

 "There have also been tensions over Beijing's belief that Pakistan has not 
been as robust in dealing with Uighur militants operating from its territory as 
China would have liked - more members of China's terrorism 'hit list' were 
killed by US drones than by the Pakistani army. China has some fears that this 
reflects rising Islamist sympathies in Pakistan as a whole, including in the 
army itself," he added.

 Journalist Asha'ar Rehman believes the issue of Islamist extremism won't 
completely damage the Sino-Pakistani ties. However, it is a mistake on China's 
part to think that by helping Pakistan economically, it can reduce the level of 
extremism in the country, he added.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>