<ID>20151117-244
<DATE>20151117<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/emboldened-by-paris-attacks-asian-jihadists-could-pose-new-threats/a-18855128
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Emboldened by Paris attacks, Asian jihadists could pose new threats
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
While international efforts are focused on subduing the "Islamic State" threat in the Middle East, experts warn that a potential peril could emerge from Asian jihadist groups, who feel emboldened by IS' "success."
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

 The "Islamic State" (IS) militant group has been trying to expand into 
Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh for quite some time. While they have not 
been very successful, they seem to have a fairly good chance now.

 The reason for this is that the Middle Eastern jihadist group can now present 
the terrorist attacks in Paris, which killed over 130 people and injured dozens 
on November 13, as a "success story" to extremist groups in South and Southeast 
Asia.

 Experts believe IS is emerging as an inspiration not only to new jihadists, 
but also to disillusioned members of militant groups such as the Taliban and al 
Qaeda. IS has become an organization which has not only captured vast swathes 
of territory in Iraq and Syria, but also struck terror at the heart of Europe - 
a jihadist cause shared by most Islamist organizations.

 Despite the fact that international efforts are currently focused on subduing 
IS in the Middle East, particularly in Syria, analysts point out that a potent 
threat to world peace could come from Asia.
 

Witnesses said IS gunmen shouted "Allahu Akbar" as they stormed into the 
Bataclan concert hall in Paris

"The Paris attacks, like all other terrorist activities of similar magnitude, 
will hugely embolden Islamist groups not only in Afghanistan and Pakistan but 
also in other countries," Arif Jamal, a US-based scholar on Islamic extremism, 
told DW.

 "The attacks show that Western countries are more vulnerable to terrorism 
emerging from Asia than ever. Many radical groups and individuals in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan will respond by joining IS or creating a wider support 
base for the militant group," he added.

 This Paris attacks, thus, should be looked at in the broader perspective of 
an expanding global jihadist movement, analysts underline.

'Significant support' in South Asia

 Jamal fears the Paris attacks will not only strengthen IS' infrastructure in 
Pakistan and Afghanistan but also globally. "It will attract new allies from 
all over the world. Big and small groups will join its ranks. Many individuals, 
including those who find their national Islamist groups not strong enough to 
impose shariah, will move towards IS," Jamal said.

 But more than in any other country, the conditions in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan are ripe for IS to become a major force. IS and the Taliban have been 
on hostile terms, despite the fact that both organizations are dominated by 
Sunni extremists. But lately, IS has been building up its presence in 
Afghanistan and recruiting disenchanted Taliban members.

 A Taliban splinter group, headed by Mullah Mohammad Rasool, already has close 
ties with IS. It has been involved in a fierce battle against the main Taliban 
group led by Mullah Akhtar Mansoor, inflicting heavy casualties on its 
opponents.

 "There is a significant support base for IS in South Asia. In Afghanistan, 
most of the Salafists and Wahhabists have already joined its ranks, 
particularly in the provinces of Nuristan, Kunar and Nangarhar. Many factions 
of the Taliban have also joined or allied themselves with IS. Most importantly, 
the Jamatud Dawa (former Lashkar-e-Taiba) has allied itself with the Middle 
Eastern terror group in Afghanistan," Jamal told DW, adding that the situation 
was not much different in neighboring Pakistan.

 "Mosques in different Pakistani cities are openly supporting IS and its 
agenda. One of the most radicalized mosques in Islamabad, called the Red 
Mosque, has publicly declared backing the Sunni militant group," Jamal said.

DW recommends

Tribute to the French capital

Many Parisians are determined to stand firm in the face of terror. Once the 
initial shock is over they will continue to enjoy life in their city, not least 
because the French capital thrives on its cultural diversity. (17.11.2015)
  
'IS to benefit' from Taliban infighting in Afghanistan

Conflicting reports have emerged from Afghanistan about the death of Mullah 
Mansoor Dadullah, the leader of a Taliban splinter group. Experts believe the 
Taliban infighting could eventually strengthen IS in Afghanistan. (13.11.2015)
 

'IS' seeking a foothold in Southeast Asia

The terror group 'Islamic State' (IS) now controls large parts of Syria and 
Iraq. It is luring new recruits through a sophisticated media strategy, which 
Southeast Asian states are finding difficult to counter. (24.06.2015)
 

Charlie Hebdo cartoons give impetus to Pakistan's extremists

Protests against Charlie Hebdo cartoons have turned violent in Pakistan. 
Experts say the controversy surrounding the magazine will likely embolden 
extremists in the country and shrink the space for secular people. (16.01.2015)
 

 Many Pakistanis and Afghans hailed on social media IS and its ability to 
strike Paris, which experts say is a worrying sign, but represents the general 
anti-Western feeling.

Bangladesh on the edge

 A number of attacks in Bangladesh have been claimed by IS or its allied 
networks. Although local officials downplay the threat, security experts have a 
different take on it.

 "IS exists in Bangladesh and is expanding," Siegfried O. Wolf, Director of 
research at the Brussels-based South Asia Democratic Forum (SADF), told DW. 
"Bangladesh has turned into a hub for international terrorism in the past two 
decades. Today, we can say that the country serves as a significant recruiting 
ground for the global jihadist movement," he said, adding that the arrests of 
Bangladeshi nationals fighting for IS and Al-Nusra Front in Syria were proof of 
that.

 While Wolf does not think the Paris attacks will drastically change the 
jihadist landscape in the Muslim-majority South Asian country, he admits that 
they will likely function as a catalyst for the further polarization and 
entrenchment of jihadism in the country.

China's Uighurs and Southeast Asia's militants

 Analyst Wolf says IS' activities are also motivating China's Uighur 
militants. "The fact that Uighur Muslim extremists are increasingly choosing 
territories outside China to build a support network or to carry out militant 
activities is an indication that they are broadening their goals and 
strategies," Wolf said.

 IS, according to Wolf, is aware of the geo-strategic significance of the 
areas where Uighur militants are currently operating. "For IS, Uighurs are a 
potential ally. Uighurs lack human, financial and logistic capacities, and the 
wealthy and successful IS group could boost their activities in the future. It 
is also likely that Uighurs could join its ranks and fight directly under its 
banner," Wolf warned, adding that the Paris attacks could be an additional 
motivation for Uighur militants.
 

'IS' seeking a foothold in Southeast Asia

The situation is worrisome in Southeast Asia as well. At present, over 500 
Indonesians and several dozen Malaysians are believed to be in the ranks of the 
IS terrorist group. These numbers were enough for IS to form a combat unit 
called "Malay Archipelago." The threat posed by IS must be taken seriously, 
Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Long warned in June. "The threat is no 
longer over there; it is over here," the PM said at the annual Shangri La 
Dialogue security conference.

 This perception is also shared by Felix Heiduk, Southeast Asia expert at the 
German Institute for International and Security Affairs (SWP), a Berlin-based 
think tank. "The IS propaganda machine has been successful in luring a number 
of militant Islamist groups operating in Indonesia or in the south of the 
Philippines, and these groups now openly pledge allegiance to IS."

 Siegfried Herzog, a regional director at the Friedrich Naumann Foundation in 
Bangkok, told DW that Malaysia recently sentenced a member of its navy to nine 
months in jail for having IS propaganda on his mobile phone. "Some radicals 
have traveled to Syria to fight along IS. For that reason, the security forces 
have redoubled their efforts to control extremists. But it is too early to tell 
if the Paris attacks could embolden Islamists in the region," Herzog said.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>