<ID>20161204-35
<DATE>20161204<\DATE>
<URL>
http://www.dw.com/en/heart-of-asia-participants-slam-pakistan-over-terrorism/a-36633835
<\URL>
<CATEGORY>T<\CATEGORY>
<SENTIMENT>P<\SENTIMENT>
<TITLE>
Heart of Asia participants slam Pakistan over terrorism
<\TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>
Afghan President Ghani and Indian PM Modi have lashed out at Pakistan for its "lack of cooperation" in the fight against terrorism. Ghani also snubbed Islamabad's 500-million-dollar aid at the Heart of Asia conference.
<\ABSTRACT>
<CONTENT>

DW recommends

Opinion: Trump's easy solutions won't work in Afghanistan

The search for a quick fix in Afghanistan and Pakistan could lead US 
President-elect Donald Trump to support the wrong groups. Combating Islamists 
in the region requires long-term strategies, says DW's Florian Weigand. 
(17.11.2016)
 

Taliban 'too strong' to enter peace talks with Kabul

The Taliban have denied reports they had held talks with Afghan officials in 
Qatar. Many experts also believe it's unlikely that the insurgents could have 
resumed peace negotiations given their recent territorial gains. (19.10.2016)
 

Quetta attack shows Pakistan's lack of will to target 'good' Islamists

Over 60 people have been killed in a militant attack on a police academy in 
Quetta. Experts say that such assaults will continue to take place until 
Islamabad stops differentiating between "good" and "bad" Islamists. (25.10.2016)
 

Speaking at the sixth Heart of Asia ministerial conference in the Indian city 
of Amritsar, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani urged Pakistani authorities to act 
against the militants' sanctuaries in their country's northwestern tribal 
areas. Ghani said the 500 million dollars in aid that Islamabad pledged for the 
reconstruction of Afghanistan would be better spent on eradicating terrorists 
that continue to launch attacks in Afghanistan from Pakistani soil.

"We must confront the specter in the room," Ghani said on Sunday, referring to 
what he said was a fresh wave of terrorism and political violence affecting the 
region.

"Responses of states on this has been significant, but some states provide 
sanctuary and tolerate these networks," Ghani said, adding that a Taliban 
leader had said recently if the group did not have sanctuary in Pakistan, it 
would not last a month.

It is not the first time the Afghan government has criticized Pakistan for its 
alleged lack of cooperation in the fight against terror. At last years' Heart 
of Asia conference, Kabul made similar accusations against Islamabad.

The Heart of Asia Istanbul Ministerial Process was established in November 
2011 to provide a platform to discuss regional issues, particularly regarding 
strengthening security and economic and political cooperation in Afghanistan 
and among its neighbors. The United States and some 20 other countries serve as 
"supporting nations" in the process.

The United States, Britain, Canada, Australia, Japan, Norway and the European 
Union are taking part in this year's conference being held in the northwestern 
Indian city of Amritsar.
 

Afghanistan and India have increased trade and defense cooperation in the past 
few years

Indian-Pakistani rivalry 

As ties between Afghanistan and Pakistan have deteriorated in the past few 
years, Kabul has drifted towards Pakistan's archrival, India. Afghanistan and 
India have increased trade and defense cooperation and have launched a number 
of development projects that involve Iran and some Central Asian nations.

New Delhi, too, accuses Pakistan of backing Islamist militants in 
India-administered Kashmir. In his opening remarks at the Heart of Asia 
conference, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi termed terrorism "the biggest 
threat to the peace in Afghanistan and the region," according to Indian media.

"We must counter terrorists and their masters. We must demonstrate strong 
collective will to defeat terror networks that cause bloodshed and spread 
fear," Modi told the conference participants in a veiled reference to Pakistan. 
"Silence and inaction on terror in Afghanistan and the region will only 
embolden terrorists and masters and those fund them," he added.

The Indian premier reiterated his country's commitment to "durable peace" in 
Afghanistan and announced plans to connect India and Afghanistan via an air 
link.

An adviser to the Pakistani Prime Minister on Foreign Affairs, Sartaj Aziz, 
who is taking part in the conference, rejected the claims that his country was 
not supporting the peace process in the region, Radio Pakistan reported.

"Pakistan is ready to extend every kind of cooperation for lasting peace in 
Afghanistan," Aziz said, adding that Afghanistan should avoid blaming Pakistan 
for its domestic problems.

Is Islamabad cooperating?

The previous rounds of the Heart of Asia failed to achieve any of the 
objectives that the Istanbul Ministerial Process had set for itself. The 
Afghanistan peace process never really took off, as the Taliban insurgents are 
not cooperating with the government in Kabul.

Experts say that Pakistan's powerful military still considers the Taliban an 
important strategic ally and believes the group should be part of the Afghan 
government. Observers are of the view that the Pakistani military hopes to 
regain the influence it enjoyed in Kabul before the United States and its 
allies toppled the Taliban government in 2001.

Siegfried O. Wolf, a political science expert at Heidelberg University, is of 
the same view. He told DW he is convinced that several elements within 
Pakistan's security apparatus still believe the Taliban could be used as a 
strategic tool to counter India's influence in Afghanistan.
 

IS has claimed at least three major attacks inside Pakistan this year

Regional tug of war

The United States and China want stability in Afghanistan, but both have 
conflicting interests in the war-torn country. After the Taliban surprisingly 
overtook Afghanistan's fifth-largest city of Kunduz in July 2015, US President 
Barack Obama revised his decision of complete troop withdrawal by 2017. More 
than 5,000 US soldiers will now stay in the country to help the Afghan security 
forces for an indefinite period of time. But foreign and security affairs 
analysts say that President-elect Donald Trump could adopt a different policy 
on Afghanistan when he takes charge in January 2017.

Experts also say the US wants to leave Afghanistan, but it wants its interests 
to be protected in the country. For that reason, the Obama administration is 
seeking Islamabad's help. It believes that the Pakistani military enjoys 
considerable influence on the Taliban leadership.

China, on the other hand, is wary of the Islamists operating in Xinjiang and 
their alliance with the Taliban and other Islamist groups in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan. It also seeks Pakistan's assistance - not only to help create peace 
in Afghanistan, but also to keep regional rival India at bay.

The threat of 'Islamic State'

The Heart of Asia summit is taking place at a time when the Middle Eastern 
militant group "Islamic State" (IS) has made huge gains in Afghanistan and is 
increasing its presence in the country. The group has claimed responsibility 
for a number of terror attacks in Afghanistan and Pakistan in the past few 
months.
 

A number of Taliban fighters have joined IS

Analyst Wolf fears that Taliban infighting could lead to more defections of 
frustrated militants to IS. He also thinks an impending IS defeat in Iraq and 
Syria could push its fighters towards the Afghanistan-Pakistan region.

"The IS ideology finds resonance in Pakistan. There are many religious groups 
that openly endorse it; however, they are quite small in size. But I fear that 
IS could still count on their backing," Peshawar-based expert Iqbal Khattak 
told DW.

Khattak says that military operations alone won't solve the problem. "It is 
extremely important for the Pakistani state to invest in the welfare of common 
people and launch development programs to eradicate poverty and discourage 
people from joining the ranks of extremist outfits," he said. "Until then, 
anything is possible in Pakistan and Afghanistan," he added.

<\CONTENT>
<POS>

<\POS>
<NER>

<\NER>